WHEN DOING TOPICS LIKE 'STEALTH' PUT DOWN THE DICTIONARY MEANING FOR IT

[4:09:32 PM] Rommel: I'm still unsure of the BEST method for escaping ambush
Drive thru isn't at all useful in an extended killzone or explosive devices used

BREAK CONTACT DRILLS:

Break Contact Corridor Method, also known as the tunnel of love.

Advantages
Easily to transition from and to other formations. Maintain all around security. Great for deep jungle operations with lots of cover like trees.

Disadvantages
People may start bunching up and converging, so you must maintain spacing. You have limited fire to your front, narrow frontage with only 2 people up the front able to fire.

Conducting this drill
After the scout has engaged the enemy, the rest of the patrol will adopt all around security. Once the scout has decided he wants to move away from the enemy, to the rear, the next person in line will adopt the position facing the enemy and putting down fire if needed.
The scout gets to the 6 o'clock position, and the person who used to be in the 6'oclock position will go to flank security.
You keep doing this until the team leader decides that they have moved far away enough that firing is no longer needed.
You continue with this drill with dry fire and movement, basically without firing.
You move further enough until you will begin to peel, the teamleader will give a warning order before the peel, e.g. peeling in 2 minutes.
Then the peel will be taken from the axis of retreat, e.g. peel left. And you will go to your left to the position you've been retreating towards.
The squad leader will go through the corridor and set the base line for the new direction that you will be peeling in.
The next person will get in the base line but orientate to the direction you will be peeling towards, when the next person comes and adopts that position facing the way you're peeling towards, the second man will face the enemy contact, or where you were retreating from.
That continues until you are all facing the enemy position or possible avenue for the enemy to come from, e.g. all in the baseline, facing the enemy.
The 'clean break' call will be given.



The friendly casualty becomes the highest priority and unless it threatens the group nothing should change that.


Baseline Break Contact drill

Advantages
Excellent command and control, being able to split the patrol into groups. A wide frontage with all weapons orientated towards the threat and it is easily to break from as you do not need to make a baseline to start peeling.

Disadvantages
Over fast distances, people start to converge. Poor flank security.

Conducting this drill
Scout engages enemy, and everybody forms a baseline by each side of the scout to provide covering fire.
The teamleader assigns bounding groups

Two different bounding types for this: the caterpillar or pepperpot and the
Pepperpot, moves back and gets in line with the other group. You always stay on line with eachother when you link-up.
Leepfrog method is moving behind the group 10-30m, then the next group moves past that group 10-30m and sets up their own position. The guys in centre of the baseline have to watch their arcs as they may engage friendlies, especially as one group is passing the other. That's why you move back directly behind you, in a perfect line.

You reform your baseline and start peeling from there.



Peeling Method, Break Contact drill
It can be used for both peeling to cover and breaking contact.

Conducting this drill
From the baseline, the first person in line with the direction of travel will face it.
The person furthest away from the direction of travel is considered the last man, they will peel to the front of the formation and face the new direction of travel, they shall call 'set' or 'last man' and the next person in line will move. The person who used to face that direction will now face the front, where the rest of the patrol is facing:- reorientating towards the area of known threat.
This must be quick, you can call 'set' or 'last man' as soon as you move past the first person in patrol, you don't have to call it when you get set into position, you can call it while moving. You still have enough guns down range to do this.



Peeling or Peel to the Break Clean method

Conducting this drill
This is done once the commander has decided it is safe to break, as the commander passes each person he will shout 'break clean' to them. They will follow the commander, at best speed, until the commander designates they have reached their patrol harbour.
It's basically just 'following the leader'. It is used to move out of the area of contact and into a safe zone for all around defence and then deciding what to do from there, e.g. retreat, extract, box around the enemy, ambush the enemy.


Re-org

Conducting this drill
Re-organisation is limited by area, you must find a good area of re-org that must give you all around defensive. It is a position that can be used to conduct your other plans like deception and escape and evade.
The commander sets centre, each man moves to the centre and then the designated arc the commander gives them, e.g. Rommel hold N, Gunslinger you have W.
The 2IC will conduct his drills, checking all equipment, ammunition and injuries. The 2IC, Commander and RTO will assess the situation and normally send a report to battlefield commanders or support units.




RTR
Return Fire
Take Cover
Return Accurate Fire

plan:
1. Emergency reaction
- you didnt see it coming
- you have very limited time to give commands otherwise you die / have heavy casualities

2. Getting ready for a planned situation
- you know what the plan is
- you have all the time in the world micromanaging stuff

small units tactics:
if four guys have to fight an entire squad then they are fucked most of the time, even if you are in delta and devgru and shoot better than everyone of the enemy soldiers you 4 vs 15 is still very bad odds if you dont have some kind of plan to break contact and fight the enemy in smaller groups or get into a tactically superior position, like a bottleneck or making the enemy come to you 
bottleneck?
troops—a boat troop trained to operate off submarines, parachutists
trained in high-opening, long-range drops and mobility specialists
skilled in desert warfare and demolition. All members in the sabre
squadrons are ‘cross-trained’ to cover other disciplines. Redundancy is
a highly motivating factor in small group operations

"The best way to take out a group is to wound 2-3 of them"
there needs to be some kind of pressure-release mechanism and a sense of humour, no matter how macabre, will often allow that pressure to be eased

never rest on your achievements, you can always do better and improve
achievements don't prove you, consistency does
excel previous achievements and expectations, that is the goal
be very critical of both members and self

rarely talk about yourself and what you do - be humble!
be a closed shop - the term closed shop accounts for a lot

leaders in small units; As far as the offi cers are concerned, I wouldn’t have rated mental toughness as the most important characteristic. I would have been looking for creativity, fl air, ability to think ‘outside the square’. People skills are very important

Braggarts have no place in this type of force, nor do men who cannot laugh at themselves.

‘I want him to be fearful but he has to be controlled.' Self-control is very important.

When likely dangers become routine, you soon blend and adapt to it. This excells your limits and capabilities naturally.

lead conventional forces in, give information to conventional forces

nothing is wrong with being afraid; it was being able to control their fear that was critical

stealth to get in, get close and get out without being compromised or tipping off the enemy that they have been observed.
That stealth is achieved through the use of small groups, which are easier to insert or infi ltrate and can move faster and hide more easily than larger groups relying on massive support for their mission. Once
the information on the enemy has been gained and then analysed to become intelligence, it then allows more conventional forces to deal with the enemy.

‘Based on the principle of the fullest exploitation of surprise and of making the minimum demands on manpower and equipment’ - Lieutenant David Stirling.
men must be capable of working in small teams,
under very diffi cult and arduous conditions, and be capable of making
diffi cult—and sometimes life-threatening—decisions under extremely
stressful conditions

In essence, there are three major qualities: intelligence, mental
tough ness and physical toughness. Other qualities are self-reliance ,
responsibility, reliability, confi dence, loyalty, moral courage, unselfi shness,
a sense of humour, honesty, a high degree of integrity; together
with an above-average ability to navigate by day and night, to communicate,
possess a high level of endurance and leadership; have the
ability to shoot accurately and to be able to march with heavy operational loads.

mental toughness should take precedence over physical toughness
Don’t get bogged down with doctrine, look at changing circumstances and apply new thought to it, take other people’s advice, have an open mind

a trooper should be someone who, when given a problem, will come up with a novel way of solving it. Indeed, problem-solving is an essential part of the selection course and the ability to keep a clear head when all around you is turning to poop is absolutely vital.

A team player, physically and mentally fi t, a man who grasps the initiative and is a lateral thinker. He has got self and corporate discipline, is efficient in all skills, infantry firstly and specialist secondly
Lateral thinking is solving problems through an indirect and creative approach, using reasoning that is not immediately obvious and involving ideas that may not be obtainable by using only traditional step-by-step logic. 

He must be determined to achieve a common goal. Secondly, he must show a high level of integrity, and thirdly, he must have strong selfdiscipline and the ability to command—if need be—to complete a mission. And fourthly, he is never to give up—even under adverse conditions, whether starving, cold, stuffed, even misplaced.

You have got to have somebody who is really able to think for themselves, who has got all the attributes that make a good soldier. He is good at his infantry-craft; he’s good with weapons; good with his fi eldcraft; but, beyond that, and regardless of what rank he is, can think independently, can think laterally and can work as an individual and as part of a small group. He must really be able to fi t in with a small group and cope with tasks which are both stressful and probably a bit terrifying at times.


medic:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battlefield_medicine
Fentnyl should be used instead of morphine because it works faster in the field that morphine. Morphine takes a while to take affect (5 minutes), with fentnyl it only takes 1 minute
adrenaline, its pretty dangerous to use on someone with a gsw because your heart rate increases which means you bleed out faster, and if they have a pneumo or hemothorax (air or blood in the chest cavity), then the increased respiratory rate as a result from epi will cause your chest to fill with air faster and kill you, or the increases heart rate causes your chest to fill with blood and you either bleed out or the blood suffocates you/crushes your lungs, unless the medic runs a chest tube (which is usually done by doctors), certain blood vessels and veins and arteries will either expand under epi or contract (too much blood flowing through a vein could cause you to bleed out, and effect your blood pressure), epi is only used for cardiac arrest along with a defibrillator and CPR, your heart is not contracting properly, ventricular-fibrillation (v-fib) , or Pulseless Ventricular Tachycardia (PVT or V-Tac) , you can attempt to shock v-tac and v-fib back into a normal rhythm, but you cannot shock asystole or pulseless electrical activity (defibrillators do not work if there is no heart activity, so they dont work if you dont have a heart beat) epi would be used to increase the heart rate so the above actions have more of an effect (CPR is essentially used to manually circulate blood and oxygen to keep you from going brain dead, it doesnt save people that much like it does in the movies, so the increased blood flow is a positive) or anaphylactic shock or superficial bleeding.


DNA Gathering:
US intelligence launched a fake vaccination drive in the Pakistan town where it believed Osama bin Laden was hiding in an effort to gather DNA from members of his family, the Guardian has reported.

Read more: http://www.news.com.au/world/fake-vaccination-drive-for-osamas-dna/story-e6frfkyr-1226093101784#ixzz1RscdonPq

flag upsidedown = distress call

CPR despite its less than 10% success rate in cardiac emergencies

cqb:
cqb may be pushing through crowds to shoot at a target
cqb should play a bigger part in arma, especially since they are making an effort to make buildings enterable and not just big ass cover, trying to do cqb in arma is painful (i shouldnt have to crouch to go through a door that has more than enough room for me to walk through it), cqb is a huge part of battles today, its exactly why most countries field carbines and not full length rifles, and why bullet proof vests are designed to take multiple rounds from point blank, in my opinion cqb is much more dangerous than fighting in the open, there may be more cover and longer distances and more room to maneuver , but that works both ways (usually), if you are fighting in a house you have little room to maneuver, less cover (that can usually be shot through), limited tactical options (you dont get cas while inside a building) and if you are in a building and the people there know you are in it then every single part of that building becomes a potential ambush point and every room is now a death trap, because the people on the other side of the door are going to be expecting you (most of the swat fatalities happen when going through the door) and a flashbang isnt going to stop them from spraying wildly (not to mention proper procedure requires the team to open the door and the guy with the flashbang has to peer into the room and throw the grenade away from people and in an open spot away from anything flammable, and that takes time (more than you think when the people are going to watch you do all this and will probably be trying to kill you), you dont just chuck it in and go, and breaching with a shotgun is even worse because its a 3 shot process (one in each hinge and one in the lock and then the door kick), and that takes at least 5 seconds if not more, plus the time for the grenade toss if there is one, reaction time and precise shooting is the name of the game, (most outdoor firefights is the entire squad trying to suppress or kill the enemy and basing everything off the saw gunners base of fire), in cqb you dont have volume of fire, you have to be precise, and fast, you cant always flank, or get the high ground. 

you're supposed to 'place' the grenade exactly where you want it from your assessment of the room as you pop it in because of furniture and all kinds of stuff that could negate the effects or set-fire as ghostnineone mentioned. Especially when using 6-9 bang's, and mixed ones with CS gas too, it's a fire starter. 

mk211:
the Mk 211 Mod 0 will punch a hole through 1/2 inch of NON HRSA (steel armor)
those are the iron maidens we use
all the way out to 1000m

interrogation:
lie detector

navigation:
types of trees, plants and bushes
types of materials
colour of materials
tunnel
bunker
mousehole


CT cqb:
light comes on = sniper has target
sniper presses button, light comes on at HQ, if say all snipers have targets, shot is taken
distractions: set a fire, draw them into a killing zone cos' no one wants to be set on fire
camera on a pole to look around corners, same with a mirror or other device

naval mines:
Limnos is an Island. What do you have to protect the most of an Island? The shore.
And this is exactly where the mines come in play. Securing the shores is an key aspect in Island warfare. On a sidenote: AP and AT mines were confirmed, so adding naval mines would be just a logic consequence

internal defence:
It was also reported that plain clothes SAS teams were monitoring airports and main railway stations to identify any security weaknesses and they were using civilian helicopters and two small executive to move around the country.


batteries:
batteries – both the primary and reserve and to recharging them

bloodtype bloodgroup tag:
Not really, there's no point in tagging yourself with a blood type. A medic or doctor will not give you blood any sooner just because you have a tattoo saying it, how are they supposed to know your not some dumb numpty and got the wrong blood type tattooed? They have to wait to test your blood before they will hook you up with an IV.

It's the same deal with putting your blood type on your kit, there's no point.

It's superstision. Nothing really comes of it but it may help say with getting a bloodtype on stand-by, but then again it may not. Always get the persons identity, who they are, so you can get that bloodtype on standby.

VCP:
As it is a VCP, the team boss, needs to stop at the window of cars, as he stops them to check documents.
The team leader, - a Corporal, trys to "balloon", but he needs to remain in the same position, at least as he talks to the vehicle occupant and checks the documents.
THIS IS TOO PREDICTABLE, DO NOT DO THAT. MIX IT UP. GET PEOPLE TO GET OUT CAR AND GIVE YOU OR THROW IT.

vehicle:
For right handed shooter: You can place your pistol at a cross draw location, thus avoiding the seat belts encumberance.

night fighting:
colder = louder
night = louder
step on heel of foot then move all around the edges of your foot to the toes again, this is silent walking

Patterning is both a blessing and a curse, we want to observe and exploit our foes patterns, while we observe and dispel our own. 

cqb:
the enemies or possible enemies hands and lower torso has to be visible, to identify a threat. This is a big part of recognition.

gangsta shooting:
shooting sideways, if holding left hand, bullet will go left (go to that direction) and low

iranian unit a3:
The Iranian solider in that picture has a micro climate unit on his back . It helps keep the solders body temperature down .
I believe it´s even more than that. The system suppresses the IR signature from all angles except the back (since heat has to be vented -somewhere-). So on top of being a climatics unit, it helps in camouflaging the soldier. Possibly pointlessly so, since he doesn´t have a visor or mask shielding his face, which will glow in our optics like a flashlight in the dark.

AM/am for angular mils, or AD/ad for angular degrees

early warning devices:
Mouse traps and Musket caps
clear mono line w/ flat green painted #4 treble hooks w/ line ends attached to small painted bells or cans w/ rocks, etc. 
Shotgun shells rigged in pieces of pipe. trip wire activates firing pin and BOOM!
animals: The cry of some magpies warned me of their presence. Birds don't sing if they feel threatened.


LOP:
The length of pull or LOP is measured from the forward face of the trigger to the end of the butt plate or butt pad. It should be measured to the point halfway between the heel (top) and the toe (bottom) of the butt plate.

Correct LOP can be determined by placing the buttstock along your forearm. Slip your trigger finger onto the trigger and grasp the pistol grip just as you would do if you were shouldering the rifle. Note whether the face of the butt plate rests against your biceps. If it is just touching the surface of your biceps then the LOP is very close to being correct. Additionally the final test is the “shooter’s preference”, or rather how it feels to shoot.

Some of the signs and symptoms of LOP issues are If the LOP is too short, you will tend to pull your shots to the right if you are a right-hand shooter. If the LOP is too long, the rifle will tend to ride upward and outward during recoil which will usually make you shoot low and to the left if you are a right-hand shooter. Reverse these directions if you are a left-hand shooter, also we need to remember that this may not be true for all shooters and all positions.

For example: I like a longer LOP while shooting prone and a shorter LOP for reflexive shooting, so I settle for somewhere in the middle.

counter-sniper:
If you are talking about responding to an enemy sniper after he has engaged you then first you have to get a pretty good idea of his location. If he only fires one shot then you're probably screwed since the first shot is always a surprise. However, if there is a second shot hopefully everyone will be trained to ascertain the direction it comes from and know crack-bang to get a general idea of the distance. A good sniper can then analyze the terraine for possible hides. Odds are if the enemy sniper has any sense he has already withdrawn but to be sure you can send out a team or your own sniper to flank his position. Be sure to make good use of cover if you do this. 
Obscure the field of the shooters view. "pop smoke"

Return fire if location is identified. If not then-

Identify - visual cues of location, routes to manuever into position to engage the shooter. Determine if support is available air, indirect etc

The bullets impact hole can be used by using a strait stick( cleaning rod) into the hole, it will point back in the direction of the shooter, the steeper the angle the farther out he is( This technique is also in Plasters tape). The suns position, winds direction, available areas for hides, cars leaving the area, dust. All these things may provide clues were the shot came from, keep in mind that he may have moved to another poition.
The last half hour of light in evening gives the sniper a edge, a time for a soldier to be careful. 

medical:
The student (medical or nonmedical person) will be trained to provide lifesaving measures, including not only self–aid and buddy–aid, but also to stabilize many types of casualties. We teach them to slow the deterioration of a wounded person’s condition until medical personnel arrive. Skill sets will include:

    Hemorrhage control
    Airway management
    Cervical spine injuries and immobilization
    Extremity injuries and splinting
    Patient movement techniques
    Drills & scenarios incorporating treatment of injuries, using both Force on force & live fire drills.


TTP:
Tactics: How we at the individual and small unit level get the job done; ambushing is a tactic, flanking the enemy ambush is a tactic.

Technique: Specific ways that we do things; The "L" shaped ambush is one technique, the demolition ambush is another.

Procedures: Even more specific; the way we emplace the Claymore mine is a procedure.


NIGHT SNIPING:
NIGHT SNIPER
by
Aleksandr Petrenko, translation and commentary by Lester W. Grau
Before the first Chechen War, there was not a single combat-ready division in the Russian Army. There had not been a single regimental or division-sized exercise in two years and most battalions were lucky to get to the field for a week of training in a year. Units were chronically under strength. Consequently, the Russian Army formed composite units from untrained and partially-trained companies and battalions from across Russia. Normal Russian TO&E motorized rifle units had a “sniper” per platoon. This was not so much a sniper, in the Western understanding of a field-wise crack shot who would hunt his prey in the combat zone, as a platoon marksman who made the hard shots beyond the 300 meter maximum effective range of the Kalashnikov assault rifle. The “sniper” was supposed to be protected by one of the platoon riflemen. The sniper’s assigned weapon was the Snayperskaya Vintovka Dragunskaya (SVD) . The SVD was introduced into the Soviet Army in 1963. The SVD is a 7.62mm 10-shot semiautomatic rifle that mounts a four-power PSO-1 scope and is calibrated out to 1,300 meters but is not very effective over 800. The SVD is not nearly as rugged or soldier-friendly as the rugged Kalashnikov family of small arms. Like many Western small arms, it requires careful cleaning and will easily jam when dirt or sand gets into the mechanism.

The author was a member of the 131st Maikop brigade, a composite brigade which formed in Mozduk, about 100 kilometers from Grozny, shortly before the war. The brigade crossed into Chechnya on 11 December 1994, moving from Mozduk to Ken’-Yurt on the South bank of the Terek river. Ken’-Yurt is some ten kilometers from the suburbs of the capital city of Grozny. The 131st garrisoned Ken’-Yurt for over a week until New Year’s Eve at the end of 1994. On New Year’s Eve, the 131st was one of the units that tried to capture Grozny from the north. While the 131st was waiting to go into action, the author was detailed to train the new snipers in the brigade. The author’s account starts during the last week of December 1994.
“Let the people know what it was like in this war. The truth. Let them know how it was.” –One of the few survivors of the 131st Maikop Brigade. 
Training the “Cubs”
We were waiting for New Year’s Eve and the dawning of 1995. Columns of Russian forces had crossed the administrative border and the forward regiments took up positions in the village of Ken’-Yurt. South of us was the crossing site of the Sunzha river. Intense mortar and BM-21 “Grad” multiple rocket launcher fire fell on both sides. There were no casualties yet. My job was to train snipers. The work was interesting yet painstaking. My subordinates were young inexperienced kids, many of who had never seen a sniper rifle before.

It is very important for a sniper to intimately know and love his weapon and I attempted to impart this feeling to my young replacements which might encounter a real enemy the very next day. The first thing I explained was that the SVD sniper rifle required special care. I devoted particular attention to the correct preparation of the batteries–both the primary and reserve and to recharging them. Then I showed how to pull the rubber butt pad onto the SVD stock (the rubber butt pad that comes with the GP-25 below-barrel assault rifle grenade launcher also fits the SVD). I showed them how to check the trigger action to determine if it was smooth, light and without any catches. In time, each sniper does these “little things” individually. They will know that they cannot forget spare light bulbs for the sight.
When preparing a weapon for combat (weapon zeroing) and during its follow-on combat use, it is necessary to use the same lot of B-32 sniper ammunition. And it is mandatory to always use the scope rear sleeve–the soft rubber eyepiece for the sight [in order to maintain the same distance from the eye to the scope for each shot].

Before firing, the SVD barrel must be dry and oil-free. I usually use a piece of field telephone wire with a white patch to do this. The guys in my subunit have noticed that I am so fussy about the care of my SVD that they have often called it “the Stradivarius rifle”. There is a saying “you can hit a kopeck [small coin] with that rifle”–which is what I try to teach my students to do. Indeed, thanks to proper use of the weapon, I have been able to cut a playing card in half with six shots at a distance of 100 meters.

Everything that I managed to teach my guys came in handy for them later on when our hungry, ragged, untried “motley crew” bravely worked wonders. And these are not just empty words. After the battles in Grozny, I am deeply convinced that the innate strengths of the Russian soldiers, combined with proper training, make them more than a match for any foreign cutthroat.

Far from trivial
Major emphasis was devoted to psychological preparation. Forty-five days of uninterrupted combat is a long time [the time that the Russian Army fought to subdue Grozny during this first battle]. The soldier is quickly exhausted by the constant psychological and physiological stress. Western armies study the stress factor on military personnel “on the firing line”. For example, before the conduct of military operations in the Balkans, [their] psychological services were busy working in NATO units.

Before and during combat, the Russian soldiers were not only on reduced rations but also periodically ignored by their commanders. Humanitarian aid, as a rule, only gets as far as the rear services units. In combat, soldiers sometimes have nowhere to bathe and no place to wash or to dry their uniforms and boots. This lack of sanitation and hygiene at the front had a critical impact. Diseases such as lice and fungus infections are wide-spread among the troops.

Raid
At six in the morning, I returned from a night raid.
At ten o’clock in the morning, when I was already asleep, LTC Pika N. dropped by to see me. “Do you want to square off with a Chechen sniper?” As it turned out, this enemy sniper only worked at night in the region of an outpost across from the Sunzha ridge [about eight kilometers south of Ken’-Yurt and two kilometers from the Grozny suburbs]. This sniper’s fire was able to keep the soldiers pinned down in a constant state of stress and had exhausted literally all of them. Due to the risk of “swallowing” a bullet, particularly at night, the soldiers were already on the edge of psychological breakdown.

There was practically no pattern to the enemy fire: a shot from one mound; after an hour-and-a-half to two hours, another shot from another mound; after another hour-and-a-half to two hours his third shot. The stress at this outpost might be compared to the presence of a persistent droning mosquito on a warm summer night, although the consequences were far more serious.

Toward evening, having rested, adjusted my combat gear and checked my weapon, I departed for the ill-fated outpost. The commander, Viktor Fedovich, was glad to see me. “Sasha, my own, we await you...and I owe you”. The soldiers spilled out, looking at me as if I were a marvel. But they were also very angry. I looked around–the defense was laid out according to regulations–a cement circle surrounding a BMP. I could understand their frustration. Was it possible that they were really unable to deal with this one single problem?

I examined the map, studied the terrain and determined the location of the minefields. The commander showed me the approximate locations from where the sniper was firing. I attempted to determine the sniper’s possible movement routes to his firing positions and to his withdrawal areas. I chatted with the officers and soldiers. I wrapped the “Stradivarius rifle” in camouflaging strips and put on the night scope. I arranged my return safe passage through the minefields. “Yeah guys, please pay attention. Don’t shoot me.” I did not consider this warning superfluous. I had done this before–as the enemy returned from a raid, I had shot him from his own firing position.

I could not return until morning. I waved to the guys staying behind in the outpost and a few minutes later I was in enemy territory. I selected an observation post in a forest belt. I found a depression in the forest floor and from there I began to search the surrounding area using night vision binoculars. I lay there for a long time listening to the night sounds. During a hard freeze, even the lightest steps are readily heard. Somewhere in the distance I could hear shots. I could hear motor vehicles moving in the suburbs. Two jackals ran right by me. As the night deepened, it got colder and, in an hour, I felt frozen to the bone.

Time passed slowly and it was boring. I used my will power to force myself to ignore the cold. It was now after midnight. My anger at this “phantom sniper” began to boil. That’s how I spent the whole night. This was evidently the sniper’s day off.

I was in a nasty mood. I waited outside the minefield corridor until dawn, identified myself and then returned to the outpost. I felt guilty as I approached these people whom I could not help. It gnawed at me like a grey rat. I did not want to look into the eyes of the soldiers. I returned to regimental headquarters in the first available vehicle. The 131st Maikop Brigade was busy, briskly preparing to advance.
Two shots–two corpses
I woke up choking from all the cigarette smoke in the room. The soldiers were returning from a raid and now they were all anxious to share their impressions. After my unsuccessful hunt for the phantom, it was disagreeable and unpleasant. After dinner, I prepared for my next foray. I checked my weapon, ammunition, night vision binoculars and adjusted my equipment.

At twilight I set out for the outpost. It was a repeat of the previous night. I went through the minefield, searched for shelter and surveyed the area. The enemy sniper showed up at about 2000 hours. From somewhere he fired a single shot at the outpost. I moved to another spot. I lay in my hide for two to three hours without result. I understood that the sniper had already left or had taken a rest in a prepared shelter.

I decided to move deeper into enemy territory toward the suburbs of Grozny. There was a farm and several houses not far off. A “Niva” four-wheel drive vehicle drove up with its headlights off and stopped 100-150 meters from the buildings. A man got out of the automobile and began slowly unloading something from the trunk.
I looked carefully. He was unloading ammunition cans! At that moment, a second man came out of a house and helped unload the ammunition. I got ready to fire. My first shot was reserved for the nearest combatant. I shot him in the head and he collapsed to the ground. His comrade instantly dove for cover behind the car. I had to wait until his head poked up over the hood of the car. I took my second shot. Now there were two bodies sprawled by the wheels of the car.

I was in for a big surprise when suddenly two combatants with assault rifles sprang out of the house. They began firing so wildly that they only increased their own panic. Nor did our artillery let them come to their senses–for it began a furious barrage on the area within two minutes after they had opened fire.

Death of a Sniper
I tried to escape our own artillery fire by moving along a deep, wide gully in the dark of night. I climbed up a slope and suddenly found myself next to an enemy firing emplacement. Fortunately, the concrete structure was unmanned. Nearby were the empty field fortifications for a battery of BM21 multiple rocket launchers with their firing ports opened on opposite sides.

Two armed men appeared on a path next to an oil derrick. The cry of some magpies warned me of their presence. This pair had barely reached the fence when I gently squeezed the trigger. My shot rang out. I quickly moved out toward the outpost that was still a ways off.

My return route lead along the bottom of a gully. From time to time I would climb up the banks to look around, but because of the dense thickets of camel thorn, I could not see anything.

As I came close to the outpost, I suddenly heard the sounds that characterize a sniper at work. Almost running, I took off in the direction of the shot. Glued to my binoculars, I carefully searched the area. Somewhere nearby, I heard a buck deer snort. Sometime after that, the frightened animal ran by me.

Through my binoculars, I noticed movement on the other side of the gully. I looked more closely and saw a man wearing binoculars around his neck. He was about 70 meters away.

I hid my binoculars inside my camouflaged smock and raised my rifle. As I was sighting in on the man, I could readily see the enormous rifle that he had on his shoulder. It seemed to me that the man in my scope was getting smaller with each step, but I thought that was an optical illusion. I had scarcely gotten ready to make the shot–and the target disappeared. I quickly shifted my aim to the place where I figured that he would have to reappear. But he did not appear. Despite the obvious risk, I had to go after him.

I moved to the spot where I lost sight of him and carefully examined the vicinity. It turned out that the footpath dropped sharply downhill. There was a sheep pen, a small house and an outhouse at the other end of the gully. It was about 200 meters away.

Again I hid my binoculars inside my camouflage smock and raised my rifle to look through the scope. There was my target! The man was unhurriedly walking toward the sheep pen. I took aim. I could feel how my breath interfered with a steady trigger squeeze. The man had opened the door to the house and was about to step inside....I felt the recoil from my shot. In the scope I could see clearly see the light spilling out through the open door and the legs of the man sticking out through the door.

I waited for a while. There was no suspicious movement from inside the house or outside. Apparently there was nobody else around, or they would have tried to drag the body inside the house. Cautiously I circled the sheep pen. I took out a hand grenade and straightened the safety pin, just in case, as I moved up to the doorway. I pushed the door all the way open and went inside. I lifted the body by the hair, then I kneed the body between the shoulder blades. I could feel his sticky blood on my hands. I did not need a kill shot or a knife to finish him off.

I let the corpse lie while I examined the premises. It seems that the corpse was indeed the phantom sniper. His excellent equipment indicated that. The house was equipped to serve as a refuge for a sniper–it was well-stocked to hold him for a long time. On the shelves were excellent imported combat rations and several cases of stewed chicken with peas. There was a teakettle on the stove. On the floor was a mattress with a pillow on it, an axe, a foreign-manufactured knife and a stack of firewood.

I thought to myself that it was not far to the outpost and the gully hides the sheep pen from prying eyes. I attempted to recreate the dead sniper’s tactics. At night he will light the stove, drink some coffee and then leave to go hunting. One or two shots later, he returns to his shelter. He rests for two or three hours and then goes out again to the outpost.

He had no papers on him. I could not determine his nationality by looking at his face. His weapon attracted my special attention. It was a bipod-mounted “Heckler & Koch” 12.5mm [.50 caliber] with an excellent night scope. I also found a NOKIA radio transmitter. This was all evidence that the dead man was no shepherd.
I dragged the losing sniper to the gates of the sheep pen and then I wiped the blood off my hands in the snow.

When I returned to the regiment, it turned out that the majority of the military subunits of the brigade had moved into Grozny. The Communications Chief ran into my tent. When this captain was still in the doorway, he saw me, and began yelling “What are you doing sitting around here? There is a battle going on out there!” And, in truth, commotion was all around. However, any opportunity to catch up to the units that had left for the city was limited to an ammunition resupply column of “Shilok” and “Ural” trucks that would assemble the following morning. In the meantime, the 131st Maikop brigade column was burning in the middle of the city.The author found himself training snipers for the 131st Maikop Brigade, commanded by Colonel Savin, in the days and hours before it went into combat. Due to troubles with the border outpost, the author missed the movement of the brigade into Grozny. The 131st was badly handled in the initial fighting in Grozny. It lost 20 of its 26 tanks, 102 out of its 120 BMPs [infantry fighting vehicles] on New Year’s Eve. The Russian Army lost over 1,500 dead and wounded that night. Many of these were from the Maikop Brigade.

- Has there been much evidence of well trained foreigners fighting in Chechnya or is that just spin?
There are many accounts and reports of very tactically and technically proficient foreign fighters who operated in Chechnya, However it is also just as likely that the "muj" sniper in this account was local talent. We have fought "Chechnyan" foreign fighters operating in Iraq and Afghanistan.

- Was the enemy sniper's basic mistake to stay too long and be too comfortable in a single AO?
I would think so...... Patterning is both a blessing and a curse, we want to observe and exploit our foes patterns, while we observe and dispel our own.

- Or should he have been working with support?
Operating with the support of at least a spotter/support is common even for the Muj snipers the we have encounterd down range. However adding support significantly would increase his "footprint"

- Or just more rigorous dry cleaning before returning to the safehouse?
I don't know that this would have made a significant difference with the Russian ROE.

To me, it seemed Petrenko was very fast in taking this guy out (just two nights). Clearly a lot of skill and knowledge was involved but how lucky did he also get?
Maybe it was talent, maybe luck, I would say a healthy helping of both. 

The author hunted alone without a backup, spotter or a security element–or even a radio. There was no apparent coordination between the sniper and available artillery. There were no emergency procedures for the sniper to return to the outpost before dawn. These are all high-risk options for snipers. Although sniper hunts are individual efforts, they are normally tied in with support from the parent unit. This hunt is highly individualistic and indicative of the state of the Russian Army as it entered Chechnya the first time. There were established tactics and procedures, but these were ignored.


MOE:
(MOE) Method of entry tool: Used to aid in the entry of buildings.

    Lock picks These can be very useful allowing you to “soft” enter a locked building without leaving a trace of your entry. However some skill is required to utilize them.

    Fat Max tool Basically it is a hammer on steroids that can be used to hard breach a locked building and also to create loop holes to observe and shoot through. I liken it to a modern cave mans club.

    Cold chisel A cold chisel can be used to aid in hard breaching a building and also creating loopholes in brick walls. By chiseling out the mortar around the brick, then removing it to observe or shoot and replacing it before and afterwords.

    Bold cutters Used to cut fences, padlocks and chains. An 18” set is a good compromise between portability and ability to cut material.

    Glass cutter A glass cutter coupled with some clear acetate can be used to remove portions of a window to shoot through but where by giving the illusion that it is closed.

    Door wedges Small rubber door wedges can be utilized to keep doors open for easy movement through a structure, but also used to close a door the was hard breached behind you. Use of a door wedge might not fully "lock" a door but it does slow an entry down, allowing for more reaction time. Several large 16 penny nails are also included to “dog ear” doors to door frames to limit access to your hide building.

    Nytrile gloves used for forensic evidence reduction during a soft breach.

    Pad lock carrying your own pad lock to replace any that are cut off during a soft entry can help reduce the risk of chance discovery. Additionally if you can ID the type of lock before the mission during a CTR (close target recce) then it would be advisable to carry the same type that is cut so as to reduce signature.


urban hide:
We can apply the Acronym COCOA which works well when applied to urban hides.

C - Cover from View and Fire If given a choice of which is more important cover or concealment. I would have to say concealment if I am only going to take one shot then displace, and cover if I were to take multiple shots from the same hide.

O - Observation of Approach Routes Just like when operating in a rural environment you want to be able to “check your six”; however depending on several factors this may not be possible. In such a case it may be advisable to have a security over watch element in an alternate position to watch your dead space and provide early warning.

C - Covered approach and exit routes The more obvious and easily accessible entry/exit points are not necessarily the best. However, if you must go to elaborate lengths to gain access to your hide, than that too can arise suspicion.

O - Observation arcs as wide as possible Restricted arcs are inevitable, but the greater the arc, the better. The most important thing for mission success is to be able to observe your selected target area.

A - Alternative Positions Select alternate positions as well as supplementary positions to engage targets in any direction.

Other ideal characteristics not covered by COCOA can be.

    Inconspicuous: For example “the classic church steeple” would be a very poor choice for a hide because it is one of the first locations that your foe would look for you after you make your shot. When selecting a suitable location, there is always a tendency to go for height. In an urban operation this can be a mistake. Often you can still gain an adequate arc of observation from a midlevel position or in some cases even at ground level. While being far less conspicuous.

    Comfort: This is the lowest priority, but still important. Uncomfortable observing and firing positions can be maintained only for short periods.

    Foot Traffic: In an urban area it may be difficult to conceal a hide on the ground floor if foot traffic passes very near by. But again going to a very high floor can increase the dead space to the front.

    Early warning device: It may be advantageous to employ some form of early warning device (active or passive) to help prevent your being taken by surprise while in your hide. Consider placing it one floor below or one locked door away to allow you opportunity to egress after you have been alerted. This is of course situational dependant.


or a belly hide the idea is to dig down about six inches or so to lower your silhouette and gain some protection from small arms fire. Because the location is in a somewhat open area I had to dig the hide while laying on my belly and side. (If you plan to dig a hole while laying down it will take twice as long as if you could stand) something to keep in mind for planning purposes.
You want the hole to be longer than you are tall to keep the muzzle of your rifle from protruding out of the loophole. Be sure to spread out and conceal the excavated dirt from the hole, because freshly excavated dirt is a target indicator.
The hide was then camouflaged with local vegetation taken from areas away from the hide location.
The end result is a hide that even when very near by is difficult to detect. 
cheese cloth help with any glare issues from the window
Chechen 'rebels' dug under the concrete slabs of partially destroyed buildings. They would slightly jack up the section of concrete they were under using a bottle jack, put a close range shot into an unawares Russian, then instantly lower the slab back into place and disappear.

vehicle hide:
shooting from inside the car, covertly using cut-outs to shoot out or overtly from the side of a vehicle.

covertly use a vehicle that makes frequent stops e.g. taxi
position of the vehicle is important so you can effectively engage and be in cover/stealthy

the sniper figures out the most precise distance-to-target possible, then figures out where the bullet is first going to cross the line between the reticle and the target. Place the really small hole right at that distance so that the bullet passes through the hole on the upwards part of its trajectory. If you're using the same rifle/ammo combination all the time, you'll have this data accessable. 

tracking a gunshot in an urban environment with no flash or dust is very hard - the sound bounces all over the place.


armoured plates for added security

Only a fool (a short lived one) would try to apply it in a location (rural) where it is the lone object or would stand out. 

Always remember Different is DEAD... 

One thing that MUST be considered is the potential FIRE Hazard. Shooting from inside - especially a foam padded or insualted car could result in a major fire from the muzzle flash. Even standard car interiors can quickly burn if exposed to flame. I would probably use a wet suppressor - even with supersonic loads. This would capture any flash and reduce the sound. Even a homemade - field expedient suppressor could work.

Also keep a WATER fire extinguisher. Dry chemical & CO2 would be noticed from the outside and force you from the car. Water would be quick and easy - still allowing you to hit the road. 

vehicle:
Generally speaking (repeat, GENERALLY SPEAKING), vehicles should be considered either bullet magnets and death traps or means of escape, nothing more. Keep your vehicle "gray" and don't invest too much into it, tactically speaking, and be prepared and able to abandon it should the situation dictate so. 
Car fighting is one of the times where it is important to not just stay where you are and try to access a weapon. No matter how fast appendix carry while driving is...it's not faster than someone diving across the console and sweeping you into the floorboard while fouling your draw.

Some points
* Even a car door will provide some cover from most commonly encountered calibers if the windows are rolled down and the shots are coming from an extreme angle
* If you're shooting over the car, stay several yards back lest hostile (horizontal) skip fire ricochet into you
* If using broadside of vehicle for cover, try to position yourself behind the tires to keep from getting hit by skip fire underneath. Again. the more shallow the angle the farther the rounds will travel.

Even a vehicle with it's tires shot out can remain mobile enough to take you out of the kill zone.
If you can drive through the kill zone, drive through.

If you can't drive through, ram through.

If the barricade is too solid or your vehicle is not up to the task, reverse out.

If all else fails, either un ass or bail ( as in abandon vehicle).

Ambi weapons handling skills are even more crucial when shooting from inside a vehicle. 

Also, you may have to engage through side windows or windshield if you make hostile contact while you're car is in park or you're stuck in traffic.

I'm more worried about shit flying into your eyes. Might be advisable to wear eye protection and gloves (normally welding gloves) while driving. Even a car crash or objects being thrown through the glass can send shards into your peepers. 

Ear protection too, it's a close environment and everything is louder within a vehicle, the sound cannot disperse in the open environment as you have the windows up too.

FF8A1, A2, A3:
[10:54:25 PM] Gnrnr: A2 has the sight mounted on a picatinny rial.  A1 has the sight as an integral part of the housing.  I don't think much else of significance was done between A1 and A2.
[10:54:58 PM] Gnrnr: Your pretty much spot on with A3 vs A2.  Not a lot of other changes were made.

sniper:
at 100 yards, you have to shoot a dime
sight alignment, sight pictures, trigger control, breath control, positions
ballistic coefficient of the bullets used
height of the sighting components above the rifle bore axis
the zero range at which the sighting components and rifle combination were sighted in
bullet weight
actual muzzle velocity (powder temperature affects muzzle velocity, primer ignition is also temperature dependent)
range to target
supersonic range of the employed gun, cartridge and bullet combination
inclination angle in case of uphill/downhill firing
target speed and direction
wind speed and direction (main cause for horizontal projectile deflection and generally the hardest ballistic variable to measure and judge correctly. Wind effects can also cause vertical deflection.)
air temperature, pressure, altitude and humidity variations (these make up the ambient air density)
Earth's gravity (changes slightly with latitude and altitude)
gyroscopic drift (horizontal and vertical plane gyroscopic effect — often known as spin drift - induced by the barrels twist direction and twist rate)
Coriolis effect drift (latitude, direction of fire and northern or southern hemisphere data dictate this effect)
Eötvös effect (interrelated with the Coriolis effect, latitude and direction of fire dictate this effect)
lateral throw-off (dispersion that is caused by mass imbalance in the applied projectile)
aerodynamic jump (dispersion that is caused by lateral (wind) impulses activated during free flight at or very near the muzzle)[28]
the inherent potential accuracy and adjustment range of the sighting components
the inherent potential accuracy of the rifle
the inherent potential accuracy of the ammunition
the inherent potential accuracy of the computer program and other firing control components used to calculate the trajectory
The ambient air density is at its maximum at Arctic sea level conditions. Cold gunpowder also produces lower pressures and hence lower muzzle velocities than warm powder. This means that the maximum practical range of rifles will be at it shortest at Arctic sea level conditions.
The ability to hit a point target at great range has a lot to do with the ability to tackle environmental and meteorological factors and a good understanding of exterior ballistics and the limitations of equipment. Without (computer) support and highly accurate laser rangefinders and meteorological measuring equipment as aids to determine ballistic solutions, long-range shooting beyond 1000 m (1100 yd) at unknown ranges becomes guesswork for even the most expert long-range marksmen. 


minefield:
Various means to detect landmines include:

    Carefully searching suspected or known minefields areas for mines. Often this is done by crawling slowly into the field, inserting a probe (anything from a knife to a stick) into the soil to find hard objects. When walking in mined areas, mine-clearing personnel will wear large, pillow-like pads strapped under their feet, to spread their weight and dull the impact of their footsteps, as very slight disturbances of the ground can tip-off old, unstable, or intentionally sensitive mine triggers.
    Using metal detectors to sweep a suspected minefield. However, the detectors may not easily differentiate various types of metal objects, which slows the search.
    Using animals like dogs that can sniff out explosive chemicals like TNT in landmines. Recent experiments with the Gambian giant pouched rat have indicated that it has the required sensitivity to smell, can be trained reliably with food-reward incentives, and is typically too small to set off the mines.
    Sowing genetically engineered flower seeds over suspected minefields from the air. The flowers bloom in distinctive colors when there are explosives nearby in the soil. 

Methods for removing landmines include:

    Manually disarming them.
    Carpeting the suspected minefield with an artillery barrage.
    Driving a heavily armoured vehicle like a tank or bulldozer through a minefield to deliberately detonate the explosives. One of the more effective methods uses a flail—a set of long chains attached to a rotating drum held out on arms across the front of the tank—to beat the ground. During World War II, to counter the use of armored vehicles to clear mines, the Germans improvised anti-tank mines by burying an artillery shell deeper in the ground attached to a sensor some distance behind the shell, so that when the tank flail or dozer blade went over the sensor the shell exploded under the tank. Today, minefields are sometimes set with a mix of anti-personnel and anti-tank mines.
    Using a Bangalore Torpedo to clear a path through a minefield. This can also be done using the Antipersonnel Obstacle Breaching System, a hose-pipe filled with explosives and carried across a minefield by a rocket.[2]

b/a:
>Aim for center mass because its the most lethal and easiest spot to hit

>everyone wears body armor that can stop AK47 rounds at point blank and helmets that can stop pistol and certain rifle rounds

a vicious circle

dragon skin being able to stop a grenade thats underneath it is pointless because:

a. its going to kill you

b. even if it wasnt underneath you, its probably going to kill you because of all of the other unarmored spots in your body.

c. the concussive force and pressure from explosions are the most dangerous parts of the explosion, and body armor doesnt stop that. (which is why you can be shot and still die even if the bullet doesnt penetrate because the force can break ribs, or stop your heart if you get shot between heartbeats)

the US Army uses the Improved Outer Tactical Vest (a variant of the interceptor body armor), and the soldier plate carrier, the US Marines use the Scalable Plate Carrier (SPC) and the Modular Tactical Vest (MTV), and i think (it could vary) all USSOCOM and JSOC units, Delta, Devgru, Seals, SF, Rangers, ASWG, MARSOC, Navy EOD, USAF JTAC's, CCT's, SOWT's and PJ's use the eagle industries CIRAS (the seals might use the MCIRAS im not sure) and the brits use the Osprey body armor 

training:
confidence firing:- standing near the target as someone shoots, a level below full live fire exercises
[11:00:41 AM] James Cain: training like Clint Eastwood in heartbreak ridge
[11:00:50 AM] James Cain: know the sound of your enemy's weapon

sas:
individual, inivative - always creating a new plan with a new idea, surprise enemy, cool n calm in emergencies; quality over quantity
convince the enemy you a large force
steal or hijack what you need behind enemy lines
call out a contact vehicle and it's weight if possible, e.g. Contact, 3 tonne truck
over concerntina wire, 2xjump over it and the others run over them like a bridge or between them
leadership must be instinctive, lead by example... if the troopers are scared or wary of something then lead it from the front with a great 2IC supporting it
bomb cache - normally underground or well guarded near airports
airport raid w/ vehicles, split into lanes and take out the aircraft, driving past down the lines and shooting them down
get enemy leaders so angry or frustrated with you that they make wrong decisions or too quick and decisive decisions
if going to be captured then burn evidence of codes, maps, intelligence: have spare map with no intel on it, just plain, in a secret pocket or pouch
remember where you are, how far from friendlies and where to go incase you can escape, remember what direction you walk when captured, how long you're in a vehicle for, how many days or hours since capture to work out where you are, e.g. where the prison or interrogation camp is:- be aware you may be betrayed by collaborators
use religious places for OP's e.g. churches, as they are not legit targets and big collateral damage so enemy forces do not normally hit them
diversion attacks in support of deception plans, recruit guerrilla and friendly forces to carry out diversionary tactics and guerrilla activities
tree sniper:- climbs trees and snipes from it
foot patrol harbour, in vegetation and up trees etc, a place they'd never expect, dead ground
simple tactics:- win hearts and minds of local people to deny terrorists assistance and simpathy while at the same time hitting terrorist hideouts, training camps and destroying them. Supply drops to civilians to help.
Jungle fort - fortified area within a jungle, heavily camouflaged.
seek and destroy enemy patrols and bases
jungle penetration, parachuting. set a small controlled fire where the parachutists can jump or to signal the jump
tree jumping - jump carrying 30m of knotted rope, land in a tree, get as stuck in it as possible then come down with the rope... high casualty risk and may be hung up e.g. stuck in a tree. Go through the loose foilage at the top of the tree and get into the stronger branches and foilage.
oil is strategic importance to commanders and to war itself
jungle:- move by moving by night, lay-up or move during day also, best at night as sound cuts out most of your sound e.g. ambient wildlife etc. (low visibility)
desert:- move by day, get into an OP, look out for rebels and mount an attack, lay up or conduct deception plans at night (almost unlimited visibility)
deceive pickets/sentries by diversionary tactics, e.g. ask locals questions about a certain area left of target, soon info will get to enemy, and you go right of the target
rolling attack:- series of attacks going on at once, on one or multiple targets
amphib: canoe's, jetski's, fast boats
do not use any form of identification
jungle - best form of defence is attack. hit them before they cross the border.
big tree's stop 7.62! and even .50 cal!
crush their will to fight through aggression and insane tactics, quick tactics, tactics where they die and you don't!
hearts and minds have no impact if you are pulling out an area or theatre so direct air and artillery strikes against communication and support networks of the enemy
differences between CT and urban CT
dress as civilians, deploy a uniformed stakeman and wait for the terrorists to strike and hit them as they do so
stakeman can be a paid interpretor or fake, a decoy even




SF using AK:
http://img94.imageshack.us/img94/1811/0bac4557.jpg
Not issued as their primary but in Afghanistan and even in Iraq special forces would use AK-47's and AK-74's to fight because it would not leave any evidence behind with the dispensed cartritges so it would cover their tracks. Also they would like to make it look like Iraqi fighters were responsible for fighting each other. In Vietnam Special forces loved the AK-47 because it was just a much more reliable weapon than the M-16. AK-47 can take much, much more abuse than an M-16. But a simple answer is not standard issue but Special Forces can pick their own weapons depending on the mission.
Many US Special Operations and Special Forces used the AK47 during the Vietnam war. One reason is because when they got into a firefight with the VC, it caused the VC to hesitate since they noticed they were being shot at by AK47s. The VC would think they were fighting other VC. That hesitation in combat can allow much advantage to the US SF. Also, the AK47 can take a beating in the muddy wet jungle without jamming, much easier than the old M16A1.
You heard wrong. Special Forces primarily use the M4. They will use what the Army has in its inventory, or local weapons if they are available. How exactly do you think they would modify them? They do NOT buy their own weapons with some mythical budget.
Richard Macinko, founder of SEAL Team Six write in his book that he bought MP5s though Navy wanted him to buy Ingram Mac-10's.
Even AK-47s and RPGs because they don't always pose as British Special Forces
CAG uses the HK 416, they get their own custom M1911. CAG also gets an allowance. Read Inside Delta Force by Eric Haney.
[1:43:29 PM] Matt 'Antipop' Hurley: they also have those portable 40mm launchers lol
[2:43:33 PM] Rye: haha yeah shortened down ones
[2:43:40 PM] Rye: same with shortened down minesweepers for foot patrol


mouse hole:
We have those mouse holes in vietnamese indoor marihuana plantages, connects all rooms in house. At first we check it for booby-traps,then control it minimally at two operators. Depand on situation,we can use mirrors or dogs.

wounded buddy:
get wounded buddies as quick as possible into a safer place - using suppressive fire, diversionary tactic, grenades, smoke, dragging or carrying away...
note: safer place, if you are under fire it is not safe. Even if the firing has stopped and you took out the threat, it is not a safe place, do not falsley think you are safe. It would have alerted reinforcements, radio calls would have gone out and it's time to get out of the area or box around and continue with the mission.

denotative rounds, dum-dums

patrol harbour:
http://www.platatac.com/www/182/files/saspatrolharbour.jpg
lines of defence around it

stack:
stack on handle side
arm length or less apart

fieldcraft:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fieldcraft

STRUCTURE:
CAS

    Change to ROE auth by Coy Comd
    CAS must be authorised by an NCO.
    Air assets coord by TACP or suitably trained NCO using 9 Liner

9liner;
9-LINE CAS REQUEST
1. IP/BP: [ ____ ____ ____ ____ , ____ ____ ____ ____ ]
2. HEADING: [ _______ ] (DEG MAG, IP/BP TO TGT)
OFFSET: [ _______ ] (L/R)
3. DISTANCE: [ _______ ] (IP TO TGT IN METERS FOR F/W,
CENTER OF BP TO TGT IN METERS FOR R/W)
4. TGT DESCRIPTION:
[ ______________________________________________ ]
5. TGT LOCATION:
[ ______________________________________________ ]
(INCLUDE GRID ZONE ID)
6. TYPE MARK:
[ ______________________________________________ ]
7. LOCATION OF FRIENDLIES:
[ ______________________________________________ ]
(FROM TARGET, CARDINAL DIRECTION AND DISTANCE IN METERS)
8. “EGRESS:L/R PULL____________________”
(CARDINAL/SUBCARDINAL DIRECTION AND CP/IP [AS REQUIRED])
“SAY WHEN READY TO COPY REMARKS”
REMARKS (USE AS APPROPRIATE):
(FINAL ATTACK HEADINGS): [ _______ ]
(THREAT): [ ________________________________________ ]
(DESCRIPTION, CARD DIR FROM TGT, DISTANCE IN METERS, TYPE
OF SUPPRESSION)
“TOT:_______” OR “PUSH ASAP”
“SAY WHEN READY FOR AMPLIFYING
INFORMATION” : TALK-ON BIG TO SMALL

CASEVAC:
BCR will be coord by Pl Sgt or the senior NCO in the field at the time.

T1 = anyone that's blacked out and is bleeding out or can't walk. Needs to be evac'd.
T2 = anyone that needs multiple stabs of morphine, needs epi. Needs to be evac'd.
T3 = bandaged and 1 tab of morphine. Can stay in field.
T4 = bodybag and evac when safe.

Prioritising Multiple Casualties

When encountering a casualty simulation requiring more than one casualty to be treated, the patrol must effectively prioritise the casualties to be dealt with. This is done by the process of triage. The British Army sets down a specific method for doing this, and this is specific for a combat environment.
Walking Casualties

The first thing to do is remove any walking casualties from the equation. The very fact that a casualty is able to walk speaks volumes for their health, and despite any noise they may be making, it is important to check for others who may not be walking, or able to shout for help. These casualties can be graded as T3 - this should be written on the casualty's cheek, or where clearly visible. Then immediately move onto the next casualty.
(Non-Walking) Non-Breathing Casualties

Now, all casualties that are checked should be unable to walk. Now check if the casualty is able to breathe. Listen for 10 seconds, whilst simultaneously looking for the rise and fall of the chest which would indicate breathing. If the casualty is not breathing, ensure that the airway is clear and open. If this results in the casualty beginning to breathe again, place the casualty in the 3/4 prone position and write T1 on their cheek, or where clearly visible.

If this does not work, and the casualty remains non-breathing, a number of options can be taken:

    If the patrol is under effective enemy fire, then the casualty can, at this point, be thought to be dead, and you should move on to the next casualty.
    If the patrol is not under effective fire, then call for assistance and begin carrying out basic life support.

(Non-Walking, Breathing) Catastrophic Limb Bleeds

If the casualty is breathing, but immobile, and with a catastrophic limb bleed, they can be graded as a T1 casualty. Apply a tourniquet and move on.
(Non-Walking, Breathing, No Catastrophic Bleeds) Breathing and Pulse Rates

Assuming the casualty is immobile, breathing, and not suffering any catastrophic bleeds, their breathing and pulse should be checked. If their breathing rate is between 10-30 breaths a minute then this is considered within acceptable bounds. Any casualty outside of these rates should be graded as T1.

Assuming a normal breathing rate, pulse rate should now be checked. If a casualty is either unconscious, or their pulse rate is over 120/minute, they can be graded as T1. If the pulse rate is below 120/minute, they can be graded as T2.


PATROLS

All patrols to be a minimum of Fire Team strength (3 + 1 NCO)
Patrol Commanders to complete a Patrol Orders Card (template to follow) for each patrol that is not part of a formal Op.
Patrol Commanders to post AAR / Sitrep after every patrol to facilitate onward planning by Coy Comd.
VCPs, FOBs, PHs only to be constructed on Coy Comd orders.




charm n betray:- the reporters way

high chest pistol holster, e.g. pilot holster:
When your legs are stuff-free, then your movement is more agile and you can squeeze into a vehicle easier.

It's faster drawing the pistol from chest than reaching it from your legs, when you do draw it you have your support hand up there to block any attacks to vital areas of the body.

From the draw you can face it straight into your enemy, which would be his chest or head in a close combat battle and engage. Instead of from the hip, into his pelvis or lower abdominal area from straight out of the holster, first shots fired.

The chest holster also better known as the pilot holster, is made for use when in a seated position.

So, yes, when in a seated position the pilot holster is a better choice than the "normal" drop-leg holster. The only down side is that hostiles outside the vehicle will be able to see you reaching for your pistol when threatened. On the plus side though, the pistol draw from the chest holster is faster than the pistol draw with a drop-leg holster when seated.

More stuff on your chest = higher centre of gravity = more load on core muscles

The reason why webbing has everything placed around your waist was to keep the centre of gravity low which means that only your legs are under load.

muzzle blast:
The snipers used suppressors, reducing the sound of the muzzle blast. Although a ballistic crack could be heard, it was almost impossible to work out where the shot was coming from. With the bullet travelling at three times the speed of sound, a victim was unlikely to hear anything before he died. 
Often, Potter would take one side of a compound and Osmond the other. Any insurgent moving from one side to the other was liable to be shot by the second sniper if the first had not already got him. Each used the scopes on the rifles to spot for the other man, identifying targets with nicknames to do with their appearance. 
A fighter wearing light blue was dubbed ‘the Virgin Mary’ and one clad in what looked like sackcloth was referred to as ‘Hesco man’, after the colour of the base’s Hesco barriers. Both the Virgin Mary and Hesco man were killed. 
Others were given a nickname because of their activities, like Hashish man, a Taliban who doubled up as a drug dealer. Occasionally, insurgents got posthumous monikers. If one target presented himself, both snipers aimed at him simultaneously in a coordinated shoot.
“Everybody you hit they drop in a different way,’ says Potter. ‘We did a co-ord shoot on to the one bloke and he just looked like he just fell through a trap door. So we called him Trapdoor Man.” 




Nothing is 100% in that world and the ability to quickly navigate and adapt is more important to adherence to? any one technique.


RTO:
RTO would be ok if we get lots on
[1:26:10 PM] James Cain: but then RTO must stick to S/l
[1:26:24 PM] James Cain: good for RTO to be Medic too then?

training:
[1:47:18 PM] James Cain: would love to do some training, so go to a town in map, clear it
[1:47:32 PM] James Cain: then get to the other end and do a debrief
[1:47:41 PM] James Cain: so, you know when this happened, I would do that
[1:47:57 PM] James Cain: if it goes really pear shaped, freeze all and talk throug it
[1:48:18 PM] James Cain: this is how we train up and coming fire crew leaders
[1:48:51 PM] James Cain: if it is not going to get someone hurt or embarassed, let them get into the shit, then see if they can work their way out

Medics:
I think we need to make sure we have 2 meds as well
[1:28:04 PM] James Cain: could have stuffed us up last night with Snake down early

tattoo's:
If you need blood in Afghanistan or Iraq, you will get normally get universal blod for a start,
and as soon as possible, your bloodtype will be found, and the right blod given.
I've seen other tattoo's like bloodtype, military number, where to put the needle for pressure relief in case of pneumothorax, and so on.

wikipedia wrote
Almost always, an individual has the same blood group for life, but very rarely an individual's blood type changes through addition or suppression of an antigen in infection, malignancy, or autoimmune disease. An example of this rare phenomenon is the case of Demi-Lee Brennan, an Australian citizen, whose blood group changed after a liver transplant. Another more common cause in blood-type change is a bone marrow transplant. Bone-marrow transplants are performed for many leukemias and lymphomas, among other diseases. If a person receives bone marrow from someone who is a different ABO type (e.g., a type A patient receives a type O bone marrow), the patient's blood type will eventually convert to the donor's type.

semi auto vs bolt:
gas system = less reliable

DO NOT LOOK AROUND
LOOK WITH YOUR WEAPON POINTING IN THAT DIRECTION
DO NOT FACE YOUR WEAPON AT FRIENDLIES NOR LOOK AT THEM TO TALK
TALK AND FACE THE DIRECTION YOU SHOULD COVER

vehicle ops, main gun:
be aware that not every target is an enemy.. If you see a target report it and ask for permission to engage or the very least confirm it is enemy by examining their weapons and cammo with a quick switch to non thermal. 
- if in doubt don't fire
- stay situationally aware
- do not use weapons you don't feel confident with
- fire a warning shot at the very most
- observe uniform weapons and behaviour of targets

leader:
[1:11:11 PM] James Cain: 1IC does brief
[1:11:19 PM] James Cain: 2IC does squad prep
[1:11:33 PM] James Cain: then 1IC gives 2IC quick update
so 2ic does the radio checks and equipment
I mean when you have the leader brief pre mission
[1:13:30 PM] James Cain: yelling commands = total chaos
[1:13:40 PM] James Cain: really fucked up
[1:15:08 PM] James Cain: so last night, you would go off with OIC, and 2 SLs, while 2ICs get squads with correct loadouts and radios etc
[1:16:34 PM] James Cain: when you come back, squads should be set and armed, with correct transmit power and channels set on radios
[1:43:39 PM] James Cain: advice is fine, but contradictory instructions are counter productive
[1:44:03 PM] James Cain: chain of command must be maintained or chaos

we manage personalities more than people
[2:34:03 PM] James Cain: once you get to a fire, you have to assess the competency of your crew, not always ideal for the job
[2:34:17 PM] James Cain: but you do your best and get on with it

comms:
transmit buton, pause 1 sec for repeaters to open, transmit message

cqb:
room clearing
compound approach
compound breaching
compound clearing
breach and secure

doorway is an instant choking point, fatal funnel, shoot but keep moving and call out the enemy e.g. enemy front, enemy far right corner, enemy deep corner
never go in a room down yourself unless its a short room or furniture e.g. wardrobe or closet
comms is vital, door ahead, ready to breach, ready or breach, then you move, breaching left or right etc.
if a hard corner is too small, sidestep into it once it's clear then carry on line, clearing hard core then moving the arc into the room
clear ur area, then revert to your MATES contact, e.g. he has a contact left and he has the left area, you move in clear urs then spin to the left
only go so far into the room before you will be seen from other entrances/doors/angles e.g. dont go right and ALL THE WAY TO THE STAIRCASE or enemies at the top of the staircase will kill you
shout clear if its clear then shout an object e.g. STAIRCASE LEFT, DOOR RIGHT:- communicate what you're seeing then cover that area
coming up the stairs, 2nd man should be facing backwards clearing behind, first front and whereever the staircase opens up to in the room

compound, first man can clear the door, and hold at it
all stack except one, flashman stands back a little and to the side and flashes over the wall

BRIEFING:
Live exercise, weapons free:- e.g. live rounds being fired, off safe

Buddy Rush:
Like break contact but moving forward with your buddy or one squad at a time

PATROL DUTIES:
Section Commander
You lead the section.

GENERAL DUTIES
?	Look out for all members of your section.
o	Take responsibility for mistakes, and give the cadets credit for successes.
?	Follow instructions from superiors.
?	Brief the section. Make sure everyone knows what is going on.
?	Get the section to the right place at the right time.
?	Maintain discipline.
?	Keep an eye on your 2ic.
?	Set an example to the cadets, and keep the morale up.
?	Help the cadets with any problems.
IN THE HARBOUR
?	Show the cadets where to set up their bashas.
?	Attend O-group with the Platoon Commander, and disseminate to cadets.
?	Be specific about what to do, e.g. “we have until 20:25 to eat” or “sleep for 30”.
ON PATROL
?	Lead the section. Make tactical decisions.
?	Keep track of time, and follow orders (e.g. NMB) and SOPs.
?	Debrief the Platoon Comd, and then the section, at the end of the patrol.
UNDER FIRE
?	Shout “Get down!” or give a “Contact” command.
?	Step back for battle appreciation.
o	If needed, ask “Has anyone seen the enemy?”
?	Give fire control.
?	Communicate your plan.
?	Lead Charlie Team, and give orders to your 2ic who leads Delta Team.

Platoon Serjeant
You administrate the platoon.

GENERAL DUTIES
?	Make sure everything runs smoothly.
?	Follow instructions from the Platoon Commander.
?	Pass information on to the Section Commanders.
?	Maintain discipline
o	If there is a problem with a section, speak to the Section Comd.
?	Set an example to the JNCOs.
?	Motivate the JNCOs, especially when things are going badly!
?	If you’re doing nothing, you’re in the wrong place.
IN THE HARBOUR
?	Coordinate the harbour routine
o	Check that sentries are in place.
o	Set off clearance patrols, and summarise their reports to the Platoon Comd.
?	Take responsibility for tactical effectiveness of the harbour
o	Are the sentries well positioned?
o	Is it silent?
o	Does everyone know the password? The routes in and out? The ERV?
?	Build a briefing model if required to do so.
?	Distibute water, rations, ammunition and specialist equipment.
ON PATROL
?	Patrol near the Platoon Commander, or as directed.
?	Keep in contact with all sections, and maintain formation.
UNDER FIRE
?	Communicate the Pl Comd’s orders to all sections. Act as a runner if needed.
?	Redistribute ammunition as needed.




Section 2ic
You administrate the section.

GENERAL DUTIES
?	You are Mr. Motivator. ALWAYS keep up the morale.
?	Keep the section healthy.
o	Check for injuries (grazes, blisters, etc.) and get them treated.
o	Compulsory water breaks.
o	Check that everyone is eating properly. Rat packs not optional.
o	Hygiene – Has everybody washed? Cleaned their teeth?
o	Sleep – Cadets should sleep whenever they get a chance.
?	Maintain discipline.
?	Preparation for battle – PAWPERSO (check cam, weapon oil, etc.).
?	Set an example to the cadets.
?	Help the cadets with any problems.
?	Command the section in the absence of the Section Comd.
IN THE HARBOUR
?	Create a stag rota and inform cadets. Brief the first sentry.
?	Lead a clearance patrol when told to do so.
?	Coordinate working parties to set up a track plan, stag position, etc.
?	Keep the noise down.
?	Liaise with the Platoon Sergeant to replen food, water, ammo.
ON PATROL
?	Maintain battle discipline (silence, low profile, formation, etc.)
?	Give cadets their arcs of fire as needed.
UNDER FIRE
?	Lead Delta Team.
?	Don’t forget that you are foremost a rifleman. Fire at the enemy.
?	Communicate with the Section Commander.
?	In the reorg, check casualties and ammunition.


Individual Movement Technique (IMT):
Perhaps the most basic of all IMTs is the "Basic Drill". The Basic Drill is one that all individual soldiers are supposed to perform if they come under fire.[citation needed]

The basic drill is:

    Double tap
    Run two or three steps
    Drop to the ground or into cover
    Crawl a few yards (or move under concealment/cover)
    Observe
    Shoot (identified targets of opportunity within effective range)
    Move
    Observe
    Shoot
    Repeat until issued orders.

http://www.armycadetforce.net/fieldcraft/87-syllabus/315-patrol-harbour-drills.html
http://www.army.gov.au/artc/field.html
http://www.users.globalnet.co.uk/~dheb/2300/Europe/UK/2pl/Brit2pl.htm
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infantry_Minor_Tactics

PATROL HARBOUR POSITION

The most common application of a patrol harbour is the establishment of a Triangular Harbour by a Platoon.  This drill can also be adapted by a smaller Patrol.  A patrol harbour is a defendable location in which a platoon or section can administer themselves prior to and during intensive patrol activity.

This happens through the process of:

Selection
Occupation
Clearance patrols
Sentries
Work routine
Security

Reasons for a Harbour:

To avoid detection
To lie up whilst a Recce of an objective is made and issue of orders
A base from which Op’s can be mounted
Provide an RV after infiltration into enemy area or withdrawing from such an area
To provide security for admin (Long periods of movement / contact)

Selection of a possible area can be done from:

Map appreciation
Air photograph
Aerial photograph
From the ground
The detailed sighting must be confirmed by Recce and area secured before occupation

Selection Considerations:

Mission
Concealment
Easily defendable
Away from habitation
Away from steep slopes, valleys, re-entrants
Boggy or marshy areas
Obvious locations
Known suspect or previous locations

Occupation:
Break track

Lay ambush – Pl Sgt

Recce Party go forward;-

Sect Comd’s

Radio Op

At least one guide

Pl Comd points out HQ position

Sighting of Section Areas

LSW Positions

Perimeter wire

Sect Comd and Guide sent to bring the main body into the harbour area

Sections are met at the apex of their location and each man put into position

Each man removes his pack and is stood-to

Noise is kept to a minimum

Sect Comd’s are sited centrally within their sect positions so that they can see the Pl Comd and their 2IC’s

Pl Comd should check the perimeter to ensure cohesion between sections

Clearance Patrols from Harbour Positions:

Sect Comd or 2IC and 1 or 2 men
Move out through neighbouring LSW position
Back in through own LSW Position
Out to limit of visibility and sound
Move along their own section frontage
Remainder of the section are stood-to

The Sect Comd or 2IC and 1 or 2 men
Out through neighbouring LSW position
In through own LSW position
Limit of visibility and sound
Move along their own section’s frontage

Clearance Patrols are to detect and report the following;-
Signs of enemy activity
Possible enemy approach routes
Streams and dominating ground
Unexpected obstacles (i.e. mines & ravines)
Possible ERV locations

Sentries at Harbour Positions:

Sentries posted beyond limit of noise from the harbour
One sentry per section posted in depth
Sentries are to act as early warning
Rifle is only to be used in self defence
Withdrawal route is via the LSW position
Sentries are to be clearly understood

Com’s cord from sentry to LSW position
Sentries are pulled in at night
Staggered double manning at night from LSW positions
Double manning provides continuity at the sentry post, allows one sentry to fetch relief and reduces the chance of a sleeping sentry

Once sentries are posted work begins to strengthen the harbour area;-
Preparation of stand-to positions 
Shell Scrapes
Fields of fire
Warning devices (trip flares)
Track Plan (silent movement)
Laying of coms cord from sentry to LSW position / Sect Comd
From Sect Comd to Pl Comd
Shelters erected over shell scrapes
Shelters erected at last light and taken down before first light
Shelters may be erected in poor weather at Pl Comd’s discretion  

Confirmatory orders by Pl Comd to establish
operational and admin routine. The points are
for routine in defence;-
Future Op’s (patrols)
Alarm Position
Orders for opening fire and defence
Location of Pl ERV
Stag list
Re-supply (Ammo, Water and Rations)
Sleeping and feeding
Track discipline
Staggered cleaning of weapons
Latrines

Security at Harbour Positions:

Pl Comd must ensure;-
Sentries are correctly posted and briefed
All round defence has been achieved
Good coms with sentries (early warning)
Pl Comd must ensure that good battle discipline has been achieved;-
Camouflage and concealment
No lights or smells
No unnecessary noise
Webbing worn and weapons carried at all times
Kit not in use is to be packed away
The harbour area is to be as compact as possible
Clearance patrols at first and last light
All movement into the harbour through 6 o’clock position (or route taken during occupation)
Precautions taken to counter possible enemy follow up

Harbour drills can be summed up by remembering the following General headings;-
Selection
Occupation
Sentries
Security
Work routine

A harbour position is basically your home when in the field. It's where you eat, sleep, conduct admin & launch patrols from. How many troops there are in the harbour (i.e. section, troop, coy etc...) and the scenario in which your exercise is running will determine the type of harbour you set up & how you act whilst in the harbour.

For example, a troop/platoon/flight harbour situated in a safe area will be very different to a harbour for a 4-man recce patrol operating forward of their FEBA (forward edge of battle area) - then again it could be argued that a recce patrol would not set up a harbour when operating forward of their FEBA due to the risk of detection :-? .
A harbour is not really something that is used just for one night due to the time & effort it takes to set one up properly. If you are thinking of just using an area for one night to get your head down, then that is really a LUP (lying up point). LUPs are different to harbour positions because you are not intending to use the area for any long period of time & therefore don't bother with all the setting up of paths etc...
As for an OP nearby, OPs are normally only used to watch a target. What you would do is have sentries out to challenge anyone who enters the harbour & also to warn you of any enemy movement (plus a range of other things, try & get hold of the video Duties of a Field Sentry from BDFL for your unit). Plus, depending on numbers and how seriously you want to take this, you would also have standing patrols set up on the FEBA to warn you of any enemy movement & also to count your patrols in & out.
Once you've got your harbour established it is useful to indicate direction using the clock method and to make sure everyone understands where each number points. Then, if you get attacked, you can let everyone know where the enemy is (in case they don't) by shouting "enemy, [range], 5 o'clock" etc as part of your fire control order. It is slightly quicker than saying "enemy, 100, by that tree over there, no, not that one....ah fcuk it..." If you see my point :wink:


• Selection:
- Ground: Cover from ground/air, away from habitation/slopes/rivers etc.
- Enemy posns: Locn.
- Tactical advantage: Easy to defend? Height, ERV, DF areas

• Occupation:
- Approach: FRV 200m from site.
- Recce: 2ic, Scout, Sig
- Observe: Silent stand-to ½hr
- Set up

• Formation:
- Triangular: Scts cover sides, MGs at apexes, Sentry posns, Alarm post, HQ
- Layout: Bashas, Tracks, O-group area, Cooking, Latrine, Single entry/exit
- ERV: 200m away

• Routine:
- Eat, Sleep, Hygiene
- Sentries: 1 by day, 2 by night (per sct)
- Work parties

• On attack:
- REEF
- Covering fire: Sct closest to en
- Bug out to ERV 

comms:
relieved in place

road crossing:
hit the road n jog, dont walk or take ur time

mortar team:
loader says loading, then ready once it's loaded or loaded

open ground:
e.g. delta prepare to move, charlie suppressive fire.... delta move!  delta moves 20m, stops, delta set, supressive fire, charlie moves and set. On goes.
prepare to move - signal to get ready to move, get up on one knee from prone
units should be prone and ready to fire, in line formation
prepare to move, bound - bound signal to start bounding
move, down, preparing to move after clearing contacts and/or suppressive fire

all round defence:
stop patrol, call all round defence
get in positions
bigger squads have 2 cordons of ARD:- two big circles

platoon harbour:
triangle, 3 sections forming parts of the triangle
HQ normally in the middle

parachute:
pilot/co-pilot calls how far from drop
red light, get ready, check equip
green, jump one at a time, in order, call when you are out

with static, jump, 1 second gap, out again
count to three, if chute aint open then pull the reserve
one thousand and one, one thousand and two, one thousand and three

call when you on the ground e.g. 1 on the ground, 2 on the ground
clear 360 degrees, call out contacts
repack parachute

HK416 vs M4:
Major improvements in the upper receiver. 416 lowers are also incompatible with some magazines so they use the uppers, for economical reasons as well.
The gas system that's normally fed directly in to the upper feeds mechanical back instead.
This allowing the internals not to malfunction ect from the the heat expiation of the internals. So, overall, better internals.
Some vid's on youtube will show demo's where piston is cool enough to hold in the palm of your hand after emptying number of mags in full auto.
The main problem with the HK416 lowers is the magazine well. Furthermore the lower of an HK is heavier than that of a M4. The same is true for HK magazines. One can have malfunctions too with a HK416 upper, but those are lesser than with same length (short) barrel of a M4. This is due to the piston use for the cycle in the HK416, whereas the M4 is gas operated. The shorter the barrel on an M4 gets, the shorter the gas tube gets also. This results in a higher gas pressure and higher carbon build up, giving the M4 with a short barrel a higher chance to malfunction.

QuickClot:
Avoid Quick Clot and Combat Gauze at all cost! When we were in Afghanistan they were recalling Combat Gauze because it wasn't working. Quick Clot is very difficult to use, messy and must be surgically remove once a higher echelon of care is rendered.

These chemical agents can only be used on arms and legs. The hardest part is getting the stuff on the source of bleed, ie vein or artery. When I went through the live tissue course, it was almost impossible to use on our casualty (a 200lb pig). Also, I would assume if you used it in the civilian world, surgeons wouldn't be as familiar as military doctors on how to remove it. It's very easy to do more harm than good with this stuff! Always use tourniquets and pressure to stop bleeding before applying a clotting agent.

recce equipment:
notepad + pen/pencil

tank:
The loaders machinegun can't be operated remotely. However, the helmet mounted display allows the loader to aim and engage enemies without exposing himself completely (he still needs to cock and turn by hand and open the hatch to do so).

officer:
understand the view from the ground looking up, not looking down on things of which makes them seem less important
this is a big job for commanders, but the main responsibility of NCO's, to know what to do next with the big picture and his men in mind
quick intellect that nobody will challenge

gen kill information:
CALLSIGN TABLE

callsign, netcode/frequency and unit
e.g. godfather, 420, BN TAC PRT
theses tables normally stuck onto window frames, windshield etc so when using in-vehicle radio you can just look up and see it

sniper pink mist
understand when to fire and not
to suppress then fine
no targets? no need to suppress? then don't fire!

the volume is for the main guns
the other stuff is for precision, surgical fire... mixed with suppressive

marines don't take off helmets - no matter the sweat, the heat.
'What if crickets had machineguns, would birds fuck with them?'
http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/brevity

warfare is muscle memory, do things in a very precise and slow manner:- take it all in!
be calm, especially over comms
verbal skills are also used as weapons to control and detain
abreast - how many in a convoy e.g. 5 abreast
check civilians/enemy pow's - if they speak english, their equipment/kit:- military issue? what military? any markings? information? secret pouches or areas? Geneva convention rules
death squads - execute civilians, military traitors or people who flee
leader comms - comms for leaders only to co-ordinate the battle

band of brothers information:
medical stuff, lots of clothing, lots of layers - may not realise the amount of bleeding, that's why you cut it open and have spare clothes just incase.... esp for winter/snow warfare



vehicles:
half track, full track

napalm:
Napalm also doesn't care whether you're in a building or not; that shit will go through the cracks in? the wall if it has to

another case (non stealth):
i am the pointman in the breaching team and enter the building, hug left wall and move towards corner:
i keep closing in to the enemy (what i am supposed to do) and use all my weapons which are required:
too far for melee - sidearm: pistol
if he is too close that i can pull my pistol or i am already using my pistol and following happens:
jam, empty mag = malfunction ---> melee
there is no time in pulling a pistol in that case and also point it at somebody. i want tu HURT that person to disrupt it. pull and just immediately stab or attack.
i wouldnt stand and wait till he points that gun at me. i would surpress him with melee. if its a buttstock, boot, knife, shovel, axe, stone, chair, sand, knee, fist, choke, whatever...
the capability to continuously attack the enemy with no reloading at point blank range where firearms become almost useless or better said useless or even LOST.


RPG-7:
It's SOP for (conventional army) RPG-7 gunners to have assistants assigned to them who have the task of attaching the propellant charge to the rocket and inserting the assembly into the barrel. The gunner meanwhile maintains his shooting posture.
That's why you have RPG teams, 2 men. Spotter who acts as a loader and a gunner. Quite like MG teams.

stealth means taking the opportunity to cover something. either its your movement (sneaking, climbing, crawling) or your actions (sabotage, killing).

M203 Foregrip:
the foregrip enables quick target acquisition and recoil control, and that also can be said of the M203 GL use…

Given that the operator often fires the GL in an angled position, the foregrip can also be advantageous in enabling the operator to deal with the GREAT weight of his M4 + M203 GL… It may also have something to do with the HK416 M320 GL which has a ‘pistol’-like grip…

Trijicon markets ACOGs with something they call BAC - Bindon Aiming Concept, which comes down to illuminated chevron and both eyes open target acquisition. 

naval mines:

    There are various types of mines:
    Limpet mines
    moored contact mines
    drifting contact mines
    bottom contact mines
    remotely controled mines
    Influence mines etc...


cqb entry:
splitting during the initial entry and 3rd man to clear fatal funnel
stacking back up and moving in a snake formation after the initial entry is made, although I would have taken the third man deeper into the house and not left him standing at the front door. If you feel it is necessary to hold the front room, you can do that from further into the house. Maybe they are working off the assumption that in most buildings there will be stairs in the front room that need to be held on. In which case great.
I don't mind exiting the way they did, one at a time. Not how I would do it but whatever. However if you are going to do that the last man needs to cover the rear and not be holding on the front door when two of his buddies just went through and cleared it.
shout obstacle if there is an obstacle and u need help clearing it

cqb:
count how many stairs, count as you go up, walk to the side so you count so you dont have to look down at your feet
you see how big each step is and go over that so you dont trip

knife:
1. The approach to the target. Many things can go wrong here. Someone could see you sneaking up on your target. Someone could hear you, especially when you are carrying military gear. You could accidentally step on a loud surface or a wooden twig or something else. Your target walks away before you reach him, leaving you in a bad position. Your target could suddenly turn around and shoot you.

2. The kill. Same thing here, many things can go wrong. You stab, but your target lives after the first stab and cries out for help. Even if you are able to quickly kill your target, he will most likely make some noise before going unconscious, no matter how low this noise may be, his companions could hear it and come after you. You stab but miss, or even if you hit, in the ensuing struggle, the target overmasters you. You stab, but somebody else sees you and shoots you. You stab the target, you think he's unconscious/dead, but moments later he cries out for help.

3. The retreat. Same story. You've killed your target, but it turns out that now you are standing in plain sight, so the others shoot you. You try to get away but they hear you or see you and shoot you. You accidentally make a noise, alerting the others. You try to hide the body, but the others see you and shoot you. You successfully retreat, but the others see the body, raise the alarm, find you and shoot you. You thought the target is unconscious/dead, but as you walk away he shoots you in the back.

no known drug allergies. NKDA 

The most important thing is that it is mounted on the same optical axis as the sight, ie the same height, and in a position giving you proper eye relief.

Z dodging or Z movement:
moving in a shape of a Z - like the reporter in gen kill shot at by snipers, hard target

stealth:
The commander first calls out that guy and if he doesn't respond then he is considered dead (with all the consequences). 
Confirm KIA's, including the enemy before moving on:- if at all possible, try not to do it in an on-going contact.

cqb comms:
one ready, two ready
to say you're ready e.g. up
one up, two up
no movement
entering - for entering a building

normal cod type players:
strafing:
shoot, moving left n right behind cover
e.g. shoot, bolt action while moving to cover, strafe back and shoot again

quick strafing:
shoot, run in a direct then pull back to that position
e.g. shoot, run to cover, engage again or shoot, run and go back to the position... takes a few seconds more so the enemies may think you have just scattered

pilot comms:
pivoting left, turning left etc so co-pilot can adjust
do not zoom in when engaging a fast moving threat, too much lead.

pistol cqb:
3-4 man team peeling off into all round defence
peeling off infront the threat to the front, 3x front, 2x L and R, one in the middle crouches, 4th man looks over top
front left, front right

quick peeking:
1. Just pop in for a second and take a mental picture of what you see. Then back way away, so if they fire through the wall you are not right beside the doorway. At which time think about the mental picture you took and analyze it.

2. If you are going to peek both the left and right side of the doorway, start by peeking one side high, then the second side low. This keeps somebody guessing. While peeking when you have two hard corners is OK, the peek works best when you just have one corner to clear.

When it comes to effective take-away techniques, the US army performed for many years ago a little project conserning defense against knife attacks. The conclusion was that it was in almost every scenario near impossible to survive a massive knife attack from a crazed person.

Furthermore when looking at statistics, you will see that almost all victims from knife attacks have not been stabbed ones, but 70 - 200 times. This meaning you as a victim will experience a rapid fury of thrusts towards your body. 
[4:37:00 PM] Monty: Tho, the cqb style employed in the MGS games is based on ship clearing.
They do carry the Emerson, and alot of them carry the Cold Steel Recon 1 Tanto model. They like the folder better than the fixed blade models due to the compactness of the folder when hauling their gear. 
A knife also carries less risk of a stray round hurting one of your buddies. 
even use knuckle dusters

someone can grab a gun easily, a knife can injure while they do so, aslong as the barrel is not pointing at them, they can't get hit, a knife though will cut fingers off if grabbed, and is a lot quicker to move around, contact from the blade at any angle with cause pain and bleeding at a minimum

stealth reply:
I certainly won't hold my breath, nor even expect it, just a discussion and it's amazing how many people relate it straight to an action movie, unrealistic game (COD) of which to base an opinion of the whole subject and drama:- which turns a one page conversation into a 100 page one, and soon another person posts the exact same comment as previously stated for it to gradually decrease into insanity.

What I really do hope to see though is AI working more efficiently with stealth/silencers/camouflage, and hey if they add stealth kills I'm sure BIS will do a good job at it; even if it's used for a bit of drama in a campaign mission (COD/BC/MOH fans might stick around for it). THAT would make stealth kills work and more reasonable:- not as far fetched therefore more achievable.

Well, plenty of other tunnel rats went with a knife and/or flashlight (jam? reload? hit them in the face with it!). If you had one on you then why not use it as a back-up, if not then obviously not. I sure would but you don't prepare for everything, you have to limit yourself due to kit and weight. It's such a multi-role utility tool as well, I can't imagine why no one would take it; same with things like Leatherman tools or swiss army type pocket knifes. And for some of the jungle environments in Vietnam, damn, I'd carry one on me.

And you'd most definitely base your kit around an operation; so why would you carry a knife? House-to-house, rappelling, diving, tunnel clearing, bunker or sewer clearing, entrenched dug-in areas, foxholes, boat boarding? So when you narrow it down there isn't a whole lot in Arma it is made for,. School of thought at the end of the day, there are a lot of misconceptions but you have been good enough not quell my comments with some stupid comment which brought nothing to conversation, thanks, it's good to think about it even if you don't agree.

Yeah, you should check them out. They aren't just about this subject, they're life stories. Very interesting reads. David Bellavia was in some hard fighting in Fallujah and Joe LeBleu was one of the best marksmen on the planet, scored a kill at 1,100m (then the longest kill in Afghanistan) and even fielded the M110 (which was top secret) for the US Army and USSF to review.

Here's a good read to start you off:
http://www.defensivecarry.com/forum/defensive-knives-other-weapons/120006-somail-pirate-loses-knife-fight-us-navy-seal-today-dies.html

:D

OT: I hope it means stealth kills, it suits the scenario as you said. And to search for top secret weapons suggests to me a little bit more of a action-based campaign driven to not only increase Arma's popularity but to expand it's content. It sounds very interesting, can't wait to play it. I'm sure BIS have thought about it and we'll see what they come up with, if not then so what? I'll still play it and enjoy it. :)

amphib:
grappling hooks
ship deterants like water flowing off the side
barbed wire on stairways

opening trunk:
one man stands at side, opens
while other moves forward, flashlight on and clears

decoys:
fake tunnels with booby-traps used in vietnam, looked like a tunnel entrance but wasn't when you jumped in it was fake and a trap

[6:55:23 PM] Rye: http://img404.imageshack.us/img404/5420/20100731adf8208246478.jpg sights are those?
[6:56:15 PM] Gnrnr: contour HD?  is that a camera on top of a sight?
[6:56:37 PM] Rye: could be
[6:57:07 PM] Rye: it is selection so... scrutiny

TAG picture:
[6:21:00 PM] Monty: Air
[6:21:07 PM] Monty: Its a regulator
[6:21:49 PM] Monty: chances are its slightly pressurised to keep fumes out fo crasks etc
[6:22:01 PM] Monty: and provide a small ammount of additional oxygen
[6:22:31 PM] Monty: The end result is it can take a hit, crack and not allow the wearer to cuffer the effects of harmful NBC and or Smoke inhilation
[6:22:51 PM] Monty: Its also knows as a basic BA, Fireies use them for smaller fires from memory
[6:23:23 PM] Monty: hense why he has a smaller weapon and is on point.
because you may be dealing with fires, NBC and all kinds of other chemicals (e.g. drug making equipment).
ECM - electronic counter measures kit
no name tags or rank
mark magazines with stickers e.g. red, green, blue, purple. If you shove em' in a magpouch and want to pull out the none-empty ones then you choose by colour to know which ones have rounds and which ones are empty.
also they use Dual Weapon lights
can use front cover sights to train in instinctive shooting

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bach_%28New_Zealand%29

TAG PIC COILED WIRE:
If you drop it, you can keep it on your person or following your person
for retention also

TAG CREED:
Integrity above all else.
Team, not self.
Finesse, not fitness.
Stewardship, not stupidity.
Achievement and sense of duty, not reward.
Courage, not arrogance.




The 40 rd mags are quite a bit longer that the standard 30 rd mag. Magpul makes a rubber appliance that goes around the base of the mag with a loop that I find really helps in pulling a mag from the pouch. 

some do use piss bags

http://www.ehow.com/how_6955605_blouse-boots-military-style.html

    equipped and trained for combat and peacekeeping;
    able and ready to be deployed;
    able to operate alongside other forces;
    equipped and trained a appropriate levels of readiness;
    able to sustain commitments;
    up to date in technology and doctrine; and
    fiscally sustainable.

    Protecting endangered witnesses
    Resolving siege and hostage situations, as well as armed offender situations
    Providing a negotiation service in high risk and critical situations
    Undertaking searches of premises in high risk situations
    Collecting tactical information on criminal activities
    The arrest of armed and dangerous offenders
    Escorting and securing dangerous prisoners in high risk situations
    Providing support services for major operations
    Escorting and protecting VIPs and other at risk or important persons

medication:
Ibalgin

amphib:
Special Boat Service (SBS) operators travel in inflatable raiding craft(IRC). The SBS can deploy IRCs from a range of platforms including surface ships, out the back of a chinook helicopter or even the deck of a surfaced submarine.

ROOM ENTRIES
Room entries, officers do it every day, but how do we train for this common action? It seems so routine, yet like a motor vehicle stop, is far from routine.

The common denominators of any room entry is a point of entry to gain access, the other side of the entry point, (the room) which is really an unknown, and the officer(s) about to entering the room. The variables include what the type of assignment they are on. A planned event such as a warrant, or unplanned service, or emergency related.

Regardless of the reason for the entry, fundamentals apply:

    Once committed to entering a room clear the point of entry;
    It is harder to hit a moving object than a stationary one, and the same holds true with humans, move until the area is secure;
    As a standard two officers in to a room for crime in progress, or planned high risk details
    The initial reason to go into the room is not a reason to lower your level of alertness. Until the nature of the assignment is confirmed by on scene personnel, be mentally prepared for both extremes (absolute calm to deadly force). 

Where to begin with room entry training can present difficulties when considering it relates to firearms training, defensive responses training, can be done alone as a specific block of instruction, or as part of a specific situation training program such as active shooter courses.

For this article I intend to stick to the basics. Getting the most out of the hours allotted to the instructor responsible is the primary goal. First and foremost keep it simple. It is easy to create a training session that overwhelms the participants. Convey to participants that repetition hones reflexes and the speed of processing information. Master the basics first.

What are the basics?

Start from the outside and I mean outside! Processing information is a continuous loop of observations and evaluation, which includes the approach to the targeted location. Critical to the actual room entry are what type of opening (doors open in or out), hinge location, risks around the opening such as other threat areas, and the space needed to get in position with a partner. All the details on entering a room are of no value if the room cannot be reached. The other threat areas can be simply an opposing door, or window. It could be the distance that must be covered to get to a room and the lack of way points to seek cover if a combatant were to emerge. Light or lack of lighting in the area or at the point of entry can have an effect as well. The bottom line with threat areas is they exist and have to be addressed.

Noise discipline throughout the training process needs to be stressed upon participants. A good approach to the point of entry allows for the participant to get into position while minimizing the possibility of alerting an occupant of the room to be entered. The noise discipline is not just a talking point but a practical exercise as well. Minimize down time for participants by putting those who are not going through the door in the room. They have to be silent and provide feedback on the noises they hear. Working participants in this way has the added benefit of getting them into the learning mindset long before they get to the door.

For an instructor, there are significant benefits of starting farther away from the door and noise discipline being included as part of the basic setup. Done correctly, each is a desirable skill in other training programs. The distance relates to movement drills on the range, while noise discipline falls in line with self control, environment awareness, and the element of surprise to gain advantage over a combatant. For the instructor, it is an opportunity to evaluate the knowledge and skill level possessed by the participant early in the training.

Finally at the door, there are key components for basic entry:

    Body position outside the door
    Who opens the door
    Who goes first
    Where to place the muzzle of a weapon
    Once on the other side of the opening who goes in what direction
    Communication between officers going in
    Getting out of the room without causing a friendly fire condition when personnel are outside the room/s
    Encountering people inside the room 

 
Body Position

Size up the area around the door before getting there. Getting too close to a door creates extra risk of being detected prematurely. Keep off the wall. As long as the first one approaching the door is focused on it, there is nothing lost being a foot away from the wall. It just means stopping a little further away from the door. By staying off the wall the murphy moment of making noise at the worst possible time is lessened. Size up the door and decide if the position will be good for the entry. Changing the side of the door you are on to make a smother entry is not a problem. If it is necessary to change sides, soften it. That is the officer moving keeps the muzzle of their weapon on the door. However many officers are going in, if they have to cross the opening, they soften the door.
Who Opens The Door

The first person going in should only worry about being the first one in. The second person opens the door. Regardless of the side it is being opened from. Both officers on the same side, door opens out, the second officer comes outside the first, stay low, test the handle and on the go signal pull the door. The first person or point man makes entry while the second falls in right behind. From opposing sides of the door, the officer opening should be on the hinge side to pull it open. Remember for the officer opening it, be outside the arc of the door. There is too much time lost if the door becomes an obstacle that has to be gone around.

For doors that open in, the same principle of the second person opening the door applies. The first officer has enough to worry about without also getting bogged down opening a door.
Weapon Position

Don't point the weapon at your partner. Don't point the weapon straight up. There are differing opinions on where to place the weapon as an officer gets ready to make an entry, from in close and level, to straight down with locked elbows. Bottom line is practice. As the repetitions become more difficult and challenges are placed in the room, methods can be evaluated. My preference is level weapon, both eyes open, and held close upon entry. This opinion is not based on being an officer going into the room but as the role player on the receiving end of officer actions. The level weapon position works. The second officer going in has the dual responsibility of opening a door, then getting through it with the first officer.
Moving Through the Room

The best plan and most detailed knowledge of a location can become useless just by the occupant moving one piece of furniture. The first person in as a general practice goes left but the first person in must adapt to what is actually encountered. For the second officer, go in the opposite direction of the first so the back of each officer is protected. Avoid going straight in to the middle of the room. There is just too much area to clear and the potential for cross fire goes up. It also keeps the officer doing this in line with the opening they just came through. An occupant is most likely to look at and index on that opening if shooting or attacking is their intent. Staying in line is making it easier for the occupant to be successful.
Communication Between Officers

Verbal and silent communication is a necessity for room entry training. Hand signals, eye contact, and when possible physical contact between officers should be added. It can be difficult at times for officers in training to use non verbal communication when the ability to talk is not compromised. Get them communicating in other methods by incorporating noise to the training. As the skill level increases add variables such as a loud radio, siren or alarm. This creates the need for the other methods of communication.

Once inside and the room is safe, do we really need to yell "CLEAR" so loud people in the next town turn and look? Keep decibels only as loud as your partner next to you or a few feet away will hear. Simple hand signals work well too. Noise discipline includes how loudly we talk to each other.
Leaving the Room

If there are personnel outside the room they need to know when it is an officer about to come into their area of responsibility. It is undesirable to assume they know the room is clear and about to be exited unless of course "CLEAR" was shouted so loud the other town heard it. Pause at the point of exit and use a predetermined code. What ever it is, keep it consistent for all the people getting trained. It is not a secret password needing change each day. The same code, easy to say and remember even under stress.

If there are no other personnel waiting outside the room that has just been cleared, and no way to be sure the next place is secure, then leave the room the way it was entered. The other side of that door is an unknown and needs to be treated that way. Everything has a price. The security of a hallway is given up so a room can be entered. The hallway must be retaken since it is now the unknown area. Same basics apply, with the benefit of having just seen what the area looks like the only surprise will be if a person is actually in the hall.
Contact in the Room

Regardless of who is in the room give commands, gain compliance and assess who they are and what is to be done with them as rapidly as possible. Some will make it easy to decide due to becoming combative and non compliant immediately. For training purposes, this is the part that can get out of control quickly. Introduce the threat levels for room entry in a deliberate manner that builds on each previous experience. Empty room to targets with shoot no shoot possibilities, to live people interacting, and finally the role player combatant.

Practical placement of targets and well scripted role player duties are effective in reinforcing the basics learned during the session. Match the role player duties to the skill level of the officers going in. If they have not had combative training or don't remember it then this level of resistance may not be appropriate. As for the practical placement of targets, if a target goes behind a door, limit the door swing to what it would be if a real person were behind it. If a door when opened goes flat to the wall, why would anyone look? The same holds true for placing targets up high. Be realistic it is not a competition between a clever instructor and the participants.
Linked Rooms

If the room is attached to another room, it needs to be checked. The only difference here is the staging area is not a hallway but a room. Use the same skills, communicate, assess the area before entry, and determine the best way to get through that door. Is it a closet an adjoining room, staircase, or hallway? If it is a hallway, are there officers outside? The bottom line; the other side is unknown until someone makes entry.
Summary

Rooms are entered everyday, but not exclusively by specially trained officers on elite teams. It is a task done by all officers in the field all the time. Going into unknown areas even with a plan has risk associated with it but the risk can be lessened with strong skills to draw on as the situation develops. Through repetition and a deliberate escalation of resistance during the training, officers can obtain and retain the primary actions needed to get through the opening intelligently.

dont say you are not leading, then tell everyone what to do
the other thing about leading is that you have to be heard
we need better 2IC's doing their job
micromanaging so the FT doesn't have to
establish command and control and span of control
team leader addresses squad leaders
squad leaders go to squads

pilot: control verticle speed, get your centre right and hover, nap of the earth
sniper: arch minutes
wind: As for wind direction changes being slow. In the air at altitude, generally true (not getting into wind shears and drafts)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wind_shear
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wind

cqb:
there is a tendency in poor visibility to group up

CT:
Aid to the Civil Power (Anti-Terrorist Tasks)

Anti-Hijack Operations - aircraft, ferry, ship, bus, train (old and new).

Hostage Rescue Operations.

Airborne and Seaborne Interventions.?

Search Operations - Difficult or dangerous specialist tasks on land or at sea.

Pursuit Operations over any terrain.

Recapture of terrorist-held objectives - Vital Installations, Embassies, Airports, Gas & Oil Rigs, Summit venues, Broadcasting and Government facilities.

VIP Security Operations/Close Protection of

Key notes:
The explosives used by suicide bombers were very sensitive, and were likely to be detonated by the conventional tactic of firing at the chest, as well as by less-lethal weapons.
Suicide bombers were likely to detonate their devices on realising that they had been identified. Police must act covertly, and tactics must ensure immediate incapacitation to give the bomber no opportunity to detonate the bomb.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gold_Commander




[5:49:31 PM] Monty: no plan ever survives contact with the enemy
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMEAC

1. make it clear whos leading
2. leaders need to be clear and decisive
3. everyone else shuts up unless calling in a contact
4. assign a 2IC
5. proper briefings and co-ordination at the start of game

knowledge barrier

AAR:
should we split up leadership decisions which lead to a fail from personal decisions made by that person?
[3:51:50 PM] Monty: well yes and no.
[3:51:54 PM] Monty: If they go off map, yes
[3:51:59 PM] James Cain: to a degree
[3:52:02 PM] Monty: If they are still following the plan, no
[3:52:36 PM] James Cain: if you fuck it up (we all will), then someone who is clued up shoule have a 1 on 1 with you to explain why it went bad
[3:53:39 PM] Matt 'Antipop' Hurley: Oh yeah. Also, we should start writing up proper AAR's to go onto the site. Looking at the ones on there, they're like a year old lol

HQ Job:
[3:10:19 PM] James Cain: ROE and objectives
[3:10:24 PM] James Cain: support assets etc
[3:10:57 PM] Monty: Ryan, you get gived the mission objectives n formulate how we will do it. Set up FT's air assets etc Its then up to me, Mil Jaz etc to get it done
[3:10:31 PM] Matt 'Antipop' Hurley: Yeah. I put myself as CSM only cos I do admin shit. I make most of the missions, etc. So I don't want to lead. I just attach on to where people need me. Ryan/Monty/Jaz/Militant are the new leaders.

[3:13:19 PM] Monty: Sections get assigned when a mission starts, and hopefully soon, in mission.
[3:13:30 PM] Monty: FTL/SL is static.

[3:13:49 PM] Monty: we adapt wth lower ranked, but promising members

[3:18:33 PM] Monty: yup, saves that 'panic im geing shot at' factor
[3:19:04 PM] Monty: If a forward designator is needed, permission can be granted to call in your own co-ords etc.  but it needs to be approved, not just used
[3:19:37 PM] James Cain: and if it goes a little pear shaped, break contact correctly and re-assess how to do it better

[3:21:11 PM] Monty: I have 2 managers lol, use em for different things cause they have diff strengths.
[3:21:22 PM] Monty: However also keep them out of eachothers business/jobs
[3:21:33 PM] Monty: makes life 1000 times easier.
[3:21:36 PM] James Cain: in the end, clear command structure works for everyone because the know where they need to be
[3:22:16 PM] Monty: Yup, everyone knows who the boss is at any one time.  fuck up, n your in the shit.



JIP:
[2:38:28 PM] Rommel: making a reorg nightmare
[2:38:37 PM] Rommel: And a constant 'get up to speed' period
[2:38:49 PM] James Cain: we handle JIP like this
[2:39:19 PM] James Cain: guy turning up reports to OIC, OIC sends him to squad or job
[2:39:36 PM] James Cain: if OIC is unavailable, 2IC does it
[2:40:27 PM] James Cain: easy for us in CFA, helmet colours tell you who is who
[2:41:16 PM] James Cain: big white stripe down the back of the helmet

[3:03:17 PM] Rommel: Power assertion depends on how it is done
[3:03:33 PM] Rommel: My last proper assertion was Antipop not doing something I asked after like 4 times asking it
[3:03:39 PM] Rommel: I shot him
[3:03:50 PM] Rommel: Turns out he was only ignoring cause he couldnt hear me
[3:04:04 PM] Rommel: And that was a big long bitch fight
[3:04:06 PM] Rommel: THat wasn't necessary
[3:04:23 PM] James Cain: also the 2IC must be loyal to the leader
[3:04:30 PM] James Cain: and back him up 100%


1: Join server
2: Gear up
3: One typed message stateing avaliability
4: Wait till your told to fucking move





dynamite, which is nitroglycerin soaked into another porous substance (like sawdust) to make it more stable

sense of humour, stress-reliever, coping mechanism, release mechanism


parachute ops, keep weapons nice and small - hence buttstocks etc
LMG is a base of fire for riflemen

main groups take fire cos' they are too slow
coming over the hill to attack you? that's your advantage
don't stand next to mg, they get shot at first
blind fire, enemies randomly shooting
Know the difference between accurate and inaccurate fire, enemy skill and range
Indirect and direct fire, times to worry about it and times not to
THINK about your position, your squads position. Do not STOP on every contact, keep moving, put down covering fire, isolate the enemy. Do not give them the advantage.
enemy following you, split up, ambush them
use natural vegetation or terrain to cover yourself instead of people
in contact, keep unecessary talk to YOURSELF
SOMEONE'S HURT? Get to them fast, don't worry about yourself. Secure it quick or get there quick, 2 simple choices. Can't secure it in time? GET TO YOUR BUDDY.

gross motor movement: slap the receiver, weapon on fire, engage that target
bladed stance - open legs, shoulder width or more apart


contact front:
do not go fire, then out. That's it.
FOLLOW THROUGH! keep looking down your sights, or keep your weapon up, check left and right for flanking contacts, then out.
you want to search and assess, check the lines infront of you from close range, to medium to long out
you want to check where you engaged and around that area
if your area is clear shout all clear
if you go into an area your team hasn't been in, assess and give a clear or contact command - e.g. over a berm, as you are first man over or around a corner
shout covering fire if you need fire going down range to surpress the enemy and keep their heads down

intel:
cell phones
laptops
computers
hard disks



use 24 hr clock

recon:
full or partial
full is just recon only, try not to engage or be compromised
partial is partial recon, checking out part of an area, trying not to engage or by caught

water:
it's hard to wade through water because it's 748 times more dense than air. Sound travels by passing vibrations between molecules, since the? molecules of water are closer together (748 times closer) an audible noise loses less energy traveling between molecules. The reason we can't talk underwater is because our vocal chords only work by vibrating the air in our voice box. Our vocal chords weren't designed to operate in liquid.

concerntina wire

open country - watch out for mines
blankets help hide heat signatures
dead enemy, make sure they are combat ineffective - they made not be dead, take the magazine out of the weapon and strip it

running in sepentine fashion, evasive target, hard target, zig zagging
smell cordite in the air if gunfire has been doing on

CQB:
    Assault Groups
    Sniper
    Parachutist
    Diver
    Demolition
    Effraction
    Group of Research and Information
    Dog handlers
    Logistics
    Negotiators
    Alpinism (Mountaineering)
    Parachutism
    Diving
    First aid
    Marksmanship
    Explosive neutralisation
    Close security
    Close combat

night ops:
IR? sticks glow and flashing ones are IR beacons, visible only night vision.

round hit your gun:
can cause it to explode if it ignites power
can go down the barrel and cause it to explode
can cause it inoperatable

aircraft raid:
ordered passengers and crew to get down as low as possible with their hands over their heads, hide, and then to not move
double up on ladders do flash/door opener man can open while the assault team move in
wing team bust out windows and secure aisles from outside or at least take out a few bad guys


the doors prob have emergency releases on them and normally slide out then to the left or right
.50 cal used on cockpit window, multi-sniper engagement
any targets of opportunity are also taken out
windows wing side are blown down and cs gas or flashbangs are used through them

compass:
If you bend over your shadow will begin to cover the compass while it is open. 

ship recce:
A spy ship or reconnaissance vessel
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spy_ship
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parabolic_microphone
to deny the enemy transportation of illegal weaponary, including WMD

hostage rescue:
eliminated the guard who was responsible for killing Muse in case of a rescue. Muse's cell door was blown and Delta operators gave Muse body-armour, a ballistic helmet and goggles and moved him to the roof, where they would be exfiltrated by MH-6 Little Birds back to the US base.


electrical nav:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_beacon

if a correction is made, go back to original start-up and correct
e.g. half right, so you turn half right, wait I mean half-left
go back to original facing and then turn half left

nav:
canal - danger crossing, canal crossing, ground guide
bridge - normally pass them at night, use night to your advantage
grove
date palm grove
center, left or right? behind or infront?
edge e.g. rivers edge
outskirts
intersections, crossroads
culvert
cut-off points
ditch
bypass - move around
balcony
second floor, first floor, ground floor, top floor, roof
urban sprawl
quadrant
guard tower
how many villages you pass before you get there?
s-turns
back roads
off-road
steep slopes, valleys, re-entrants
bogs, marshes
bazaar, market place
mosque, church
statue
berms
look for road signs for directions (enemy tactic to move road sign to send you in wrong direction)
road shoulder - emergency shoulder, emergency lane
scrub
archway
brush
sea cave
sewer
reed beds
sea bed
cave
ditch (tank ditch also)
bush
tree
pipe stack/chimney
drainpipe
remember height! 10foot berm, 16 foot wall, that helps!


driving - 3 points turn, j-turn

boxes in - stuck on all sides, cannot get out

ID - good way to ID, green tracers from Russian/normally enemy ammunition, red from Coalition made but remember allies use it too

NVG's - no depth perception, harder to tell distance
nvg wash out - bright light flashes e.g. white flashes may 'wash' them out, so you cannot see as it is too bright



roadblock - set-up claymore on front or behind, e.g. on the wires, sandbags so if a car rams through or tries to they set it-off
can even use detcord to set it off on a vehicle that comes too close
can use bar mines
seal off traffic, blocking force to isolate enemies into one location or with limited supply routes and access
fire warnings, warning shots, near vehicle - not in front cos of ricochets, fire left or right of truck depending which way you are facing and past the passenger window with a lot of lead (way infront of it like 5m) so they can see it
use tracer for this
set-up southern and northern etc roadblocks so youre protected at the rear
field interrogation - interrogation area within the battlefield, for quick decisive information



know lines of arabic or where-ever you are fighting for hands up, surrender, hello, how are you etc.

keep synergy, kit synergy - everything works with the squad, is compatible or has spares
dual-role equipment can be used for different tasks
everyone has mission essential equipment


using knive:
watch out for magazine, armour and thick-skinned clothing - aim for flesh

manoeuvre warfare:
keep moving, flanking, outflanking, moving through gaps, getting to one area to pull units into the killing zone
tie down the enemy so you can invade them and take them out from other positions

recce:
video camera, thermal imaging comes with
foot patrol first to get eyes off to confirm enemy ambushes or BDA
front on assault = 90% chance of death


contingency plan
e.g. if my .50 cal is down, i want team 2's mk19 up front


route recon - check a route, may involve movement to contact MTC
scout vehicle, driver or scout foot-mobile must know the map, correct turning points etc. if not, get someone to navigate while u scout
trial by fire - test by combat
overwatch positions stand-by for casevacs and create all round defence if needed, they normally have at least 1x medic
dig-in positions may be used
combat discipline, still try to get rounds off if you are hit, it may be the only way to survive
dig-in and set-up and op and analyse the route, count cars, note them

quote: "Observe everything, admire nothing"
conserve resources e.g. use map to find range instead of batteries + rangefinder

enemy encampments may be booby-trapped, walk in eachothers footsteps
auxillary ammo, as in ammo held in reserve for exceptional circumstances. That is to say that you do not touch that ammo until the ammo on your LBE (load bearing equipment, vest or webbing) and the ammo in your back pack (if you brought one) is comepletely dry. e.g. ammo attached to buttstock

psyops:
leaflets saying, safe passage if u surrender
make terps put a little spin on things, make things sound better, more positive

briefing:
predicted casualty rates
expect or do not expect casualties?
what to do when there is one?
ask yourself questions you would if you were a soldier looking at the commander
enemy: regular or irregular, differentiate them
population of towns, type of infastructure
expected contact e.g. from both sides, from NW
no casualties reported here and here, heavy fighting here?
covert plans to stop infiltrators e.g. spies, iraqi's in us army
sitrep, intel report, averages e.g. door heights, population
approach to target - geographical terrain and enemy positions
ROE - it may be promximity or radius based e.g. 1km around obj = hostile, free to engage
free-fire zone = no ROE
proximity of friendly positions or known enemy positions e.g. QRF's, re-supply, casevac
reinforcements, relief in place
expected resistance
hours since departure, hours since last obj and what has happened in between and leading to the future happenings
pockets of resistance
updated reports
start time
end time
time on objective
area of operations
tactical area of operations
counter-battery operations and reports
detaining males, military age, searching houses - prisoner reports
border activity
danger areas
progressive points e.g. stage green to red at this point, use coloured markers for this
alternate routes
contingency plan - back-up plan, emergency plan
objectives in blocks e.g. block 1 is obj 1&2, if compromised then move to block 2


snatch mission - take into questioning, take them to find information
males, military age, don't look local = probably bad guys
groups of them = prepare for contact
combat indictator - civilians fleeing, screams, suspicious movement, no children

vehicle stop - warning shot with smoke, car goes past smoke, light it up - problem is if it is bad guys you can't see them and they can't see you cos' of smoke
use warning shot
try to have a disembarked or front gunner give warning shot while main gun keeps sight on the car, you can't afford to let the sight go off the car incase they are enemy

controlled det - controlled demolition with a count-down, make sure civs and friendlies are clear of the area - including blast and shrapnel radius or in a covered position

leaders - chill out the guys, keep suicide bombers and ied's at the back of their mind but always looking for them, don't be scared or nervous - it won't matter!
do not hesitate to execute orders but do it with your own flavour

civilians + hostile intent = get ready to fire


possible enemy on YOUR sector, send YOUR team out of the perimeter to check on it, have other teams nearby on back-up and comms
inspect the area around it, assess the terrain for microterrain, dead ground etc, make a plan of attack


keep good distance from the crowd
allowing crowds through the lines
do it in blocks or clips of x number e.g. 10
slow-walk them, make them walk
you may get them into column formation through the lines
keep groups tight



hostile intent:
The threat of imminent use of force by a foreign force, terrorist(s),
or organization against the United States and US national interests, US forces and,
in certain circumstances, US nationals, their property, US commercial assets, and other
designated non-US forces, foreign nationals, and their property. When hostile intent is present,
the right exists to use proportional force, including armed force, in self-defense by all necessary means available to
deter or neutralize the potential attacker or, if necessary, to destroy the threat. A determination that hostile intent
exists and requires the use of proportional force in self-defense must be based on evidence that an attack is imminent.
Evidence necessary to determine hostile intent will vary depending on the state of international and regional political
tension, military preparations, intelligence, and indications and warning information.


combat effectiveness:
1. the quality of being effective in combat.

2. the abilities and fighting qualities of a combat unit.



check enemies for documents, uniforms, hidden intelligence, weapons, equipment
find an execution - determine cause of death



use close together formations with vehicles strategically infront to cover the rest with dust so the enemy cannot count or see


searching for something? call in how many grid squares you cover e.g. 3, would mean 300m or thereabouts
staging area normally has lay-out maps, intel and plan laid out on the ground using natural objects like twigs, etc
nco - non-commisioned officer
a blocking - a blocking force, roadblock or route block
0-dawn hundred, dusk, dawn, night, day


sleep deprevation - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autokinetic_effect
involuntary muscle movements of your own eyes (autokenisis)
makes you think an object is something else, mixed with imagination means you may spot something that's not there e.g. the enemy
something on a larger background seems closer e.g. a building behind a vehicle (watch Ww2 sniper doco for this info)


comms:
unaware at this time
good effects, one building destroyed
snap to, stay frosty
break.... break in comms, say break again to start comms up again e.g. Break - pause - break blah blah
grid zone designator - the grid reference

quote: "Doctrine, is the last refuge of the unimaginative"


stand-to


windows n doors - enterances and exits


sniper:
spotter may sing or humm a song to calm the sniper
spotter puts leg and arm over sniper so breathing is in-sync and calms them

training:
enemy targets that move inbetween other friendly targets e.g. movers
with KD, unknown distance pop-ups, movers, and shoot-house
mix it up with smoke, noise and fire
headshot only targets
remote controlled targets, or targets that pop-up randomly
can use flashbangs or smoke to simulate rockets



raid:
blow up roof, flash as or before you move in, fast rope in - with concrete buildings you may get reinforced concrete and will have to cut through the steel grinders, meaning both explosive and mechanical entry
1x covers the blown entrance at all times

rappel in
breach to create a loophole to shoot out of, not always to go through


vehicles:
always have a gps, spare ammo
ground guide - A person who walks in front of a tank in congested areas like tank parks to guide the tank by the use of recognized and standardized hand signals. 
if vehicle moving left aim from right and fire so bullets hit the target while moving left, lead it
suppressive fire when mounting up in contact
jerrycans - keep multiple for long patrols
spare tyres, heavy duty for larger vehicles
use local petrol stations, be careful of booby-traps
check tyres before moving out
watch out for pot-holes etc
off-road shortcuts may lead to swamps, and other natural obstacles if you have not recce'd the route - have 2x vehicles for this to have one pull it out

dealing with wet conditions, different weather effects
very hot tarmac can cause tyres to burst
static contact front - shoot through the windshield, guys in the back disembark, driver can engage also
bomb debris and heavy terrain will resitrict movement but also jump up and down, causing the gunner to be inaccurate
watch out for anything that can take out the gunner e.g. wires hanging from downed telephone poles

snatch vehicle like a van
pulls up along side, 1x smashes window and the other opens door from inside out and pulls the person out
escort vehicles help the van, e.g. getting infront of target and behind target, cutting it off

CT vehicle with ladder attatched to get in a target quick, onto the roof or over the wall etc. can be used for getting up to a 2nd storey window and busting through that
even breaching over fences with wire on the top, use flashbangs for compound breaching as you will take rounds
run to target if you have to, if to have your gun up is too slow, or have 1x with gun up only




shipping pallets need air dropped in or shipped in, transported in - fill out reports to get what you want in

shock troops

leader: never allow conflicting reports, make sure everyone tells the truth
personality types e.g. A, B, C - alpha male



cqb:
1x left, 1x right, same again - 4man team
room facing inwards to the right then 1x right first - go to the length of the room
breacher always has spare breaching kit e.g. shotgun won't work on steel door, use linear charge
one man covers breaching, assistant also - has a small amount of breaching equipment
explosive breaching - overpressure comes back into the room so analyse it and decide whether or not you have to flee or get to cover, leave the room or look away
to be quicker, clear the rooms you have to clear to get to the objective room but before that have the breaching get his kit ready to get straight in there instead of pissing about before it
team must have a protcol e.g. 2 shots each only, so bang bang, then team members can move infront of line of fire
have a time limit for everything e.g. 5 seconds for breaching, 5 seconds for entry
first guys in get as far into room before raising weapons, the guys after that have their weapons up entering incase a firefight has ensued, they can cover their buddies and engage the targets who are already focused on their buddies

if windows are present, bust them and throw flashbangs in multiple sides
breaching breaches, if door does not open then breaching pushes it with hand or forces it with foot - depending on whether the breach worked or not and how much force is needed

VIP: get out of car to escort, take contact, front line puts down fire as back line gets VIP to the vehicle
all round defence, e.g. guy to the front of VIP and back - sides if a big team
1x jumps in vehicle and covers VIP
1x jumps in driver
1x in passenger putting down fire

2x veh behind and rear of VIP, both stop slightly sideways to maintain defence of VIP vehicle
rest but drivers disembark and cover VIP veh
BG taps on window when scene assessed and all clear

1x scout opens doors and goes in before VIP
1x keeps door open for VIP


people shiver with excess of adrenaline


helicopter shoot: shoot from helicopter into vehicle, aim for engine block (cylinder head) and important places e.g. tyres - once suspect pulled out by the team from the following car, they might need to be searched then chucked in the helicopter, cuffed
bridge: may be mined, don't know if it'll hold certain vehicles like tanks - single bridges can be blocked easily, with wrecks or any fortifications, making it easy to trap enemies in it

make enemy weapons inoperatable, throw them in water, take out charging handles, trigger groups, blow them up, anything
booby-trapped person - check them over, clear other friendlies, use rope or your hands to roll them towards you and keep your head down for the boom

quote: Trained to ignore pain, to ignore weapon.


recce:
count all people in certain areas
isolate them to certain buildings to work out their homes, jobs and routines
birds don't sing when people are nearby e.g. in their area, near the trees

DIFFERENCES IN DAY AND NIGHT RECCE'S AND TTP'S, SOP'S


S/A of smaller leaders does not extend as far as higher up's
FOB's have check-in zones
binoculars with a slit inside of full lense is more tactical
marking minefields - chemlights, etc - never mark them at night
stand away from it and toss the chemlights in


enemy tacts:
faking surrender to kill friendlies
using civs to trick
shoot mortars from out a building, through the roof like a hole in it or a skylight

assaults cannot begin until friendlies own supply routes, bridges and other forms of transport and supply
so the enemy try cut this off with shoot and scoot tactics


medic:
keep tourniquet high, say strapped around the neck or head as bandana
check for breathing, stop the bleeding
med reports - bleeders, head wounds, chest wounds, burn or GSW
sharpie marker time on forearm and date, kind of wound and where
must know a 9 liner for medevac and casevac

priority one:
surgical, need surgery or support you or your unit cannot give, therefore casevac
e.g. four gsw's

palp = heart palpatations
tachometer - An instrument used to measure the rotations per minute of a rotating shaft.
rules - provide with care until patient dies
behind enemy lines CASEVAC does not usually exist
ROE - same medical care by local standards you must give civilians
shock-trauma unit
Polytrauma or multiple trauma is a medical term describing the condition of a person who has been subjected to multiple traumatic injuries, such as a serious head injury in addition to a serious burn.
assistant and lead medics
sucking chest wound can use stethoscope to check breathing around the lungs area
shrapnel wound? how much? inch? more? this will dictate how far it may have penetrated and the priority
can't give morphine until patient is stabilised
heal the people in cover, priorities and safety

stabalise
transport
fluids
medication

A 	Airway
B 	Breathing
C 	Circulation
D 	Disabilities
E 	Expose/Environment

GENERAL PATIENT CARE GUIDELINE
SCENE SURVEY
•	PPE (Personal Protective Equipment)
•	Scene Safety / Evaluate for Hazards
•	Mechanism of Injury
•	Consider Spinal Stabilization
•	Number of Victims
•	Additional Resources
                ?
ESTABLISH LOC
   A=Alert, V=Responds to Voice, P=Responds to Pain, U=Unresponsive
Obtain and Document Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS)
?
SPINAL PRECAUTIONS
Manually stabilize c-spine if trauma is suspected
?
AIRWAY
Establish and maintain open airway
Place oral or nasal airway if unconscious
Consider Non-visualized Airway
if not breathing (see “AED” Protocol)
?
BREATHING
Administer oxygen at 10-15 L/min by mask or
If breathing inadequate Assist ventilations
?
CIRCULATION/PERFUSION
Assess pulses
Assess skin color and capillary refill
Apply AED if patient in full arrest (see “AED” Protocol)
?
BLEEDING
Apply direct pressure to external bleeding and
Use pressure points for uncontrolled bleeding
?
VITAL SIGNS
Obtain Respiratory Rate, Pulse Rate, B/P & Perfusion Status
Obtain Blood Glucose Determination 
?
HISTORY
?
HEAD-TO-TOE-EXAM
All life-threatening problems should be treated as they are found



digging in - square the walls, helps to dig

S/A = situational awareness
conter-proliferation

penetration:
faster = B/A pen
larger mass + speed = barrier pen

amphibious recce amphib:
A four-man team of Marines simulate in infiltrating a beachhead to gain information about the enemy and its adjacent beaches to help forecast a 'ship-to-shore' landing operation
Visit, Board, Search, and Seizure (VBSS)
to stop hijacking, piracy, and slavery, also known as human trafficking

diapers used for combat when you have to man and can't get off the vehicle to pee

mobile recon:
use of vehicles
speed + dispersion e.g. maintain speed and dispersion or speed 50, dispersion 100

accronyms:
Table of Equipment (T/E)
sub-machine guns (SMGs)
Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Intelligence Group" (SRIG)

weather reports:
winds (speeds)
weather
time
forcast
progression from a to b e.g. rain to sun over time period

hostage rescue / CT:
check for hidden rooms

uav: Comanche was killed by UAV advancements, cause UAV is a cheaper armed reconnaissance vehicle without the need to protect pilot.

comms:
youre breaking up
engine failure
interrogative - Interrogative: Radio code prefacing a question
So they would say that first to let the other side know they are about to ask a question. Radio chatter can get confusing because of static and background noise so its very important to know what each side is trying to say. And many question words, Who, what, when, where, why all start with wh and that sounds can be hard to distinguish over a radio if there is interference.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Navajo_code
When the US Military made the change to a frequency hopping radio, the need for encryption went away. The Name God Father is the name of the Battalion Commander. In most cases each unit gets to choose their own names, in the army it is usually the unit mascot name followed by a number. For example, my battalion earned the nic-name Pacemakers during WWII. The Battalion Commander was called Pacemaker 6, his CSM was Pacemaker 5. The company's under the BN had their own mascots, and the Company Commanders were what ever name they choose with the letter six. One Co was walled the Roughnecks, so the Commander was Roughneck Six, His First Sergent was Roughneck 5, ect.
As Far as the term Oscar Mike, Oscar is the name for the letter O in the alphabet, and Mike is the letter M. If you will notice they are moving when they say it. It is short for saying, "We are on the move, or we are repositioning ourselves so keep your eyes open for us so you don't light us up." It is not just the Marines, to the best of my knowledge it is standardized across the uniformed services. This standardization came about because of a little operation known best as the invasion of Granada.
make the or a hole in a convoy - make space for a vehicle
PQ for lasers etc, pronounced 'peck'
'glassed it' used a scope to eye it out
'eyeballed it' used your eye to look at it
silhouette 2 clicks out - you don't have to say vehicle or enemy, you can assume by saying silhouette, possible etc
brass-check, check no brass in cartridge, condition blah
be advised
njp - non-judiscional punishment

counter-ambush:
push through the kill zone, support by fire
or
have one vehicle (normally support or medical) assess the downed vehicle while the rest support by fire

weapons:
always good to have weapons that can convert to useage of enemy ammunition
e.g. 7.62 NATO

main gun comms:
scan west to north etc

round/ammo count:
1 mag, 100 left
reload on last round so one is in the chamber

strategically pee and poo, hence why you dig in and cover it up, leaving no sign and check it to make sure you are not ill e.g. soft, hard, runny
hence the adult diapers are sometimes needed
cat holes are where you shit
slit-trenched latrines are untactical

emergency reload:
The emergency is the fact that your weapon has expended all ammunition and you are still engaged in a fire fight? with the enemy. This 

reload:
1 - Release empty magazine

2 - Load fresh magazine

3- Close bolt

This guy is just dropping mags and slapping new ones in. Unless he plans on dumping magazines with rounds remaining in them, he wont be reloading the gun on a? close bolt, thus allowing him to skip the bolt release portion of the magazine changing process.


urban ops:
203 in suspected enemy pos' and pos' you're gunna move to e.g. across the street

B/A:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulletproof_vest
http://www.defence.pk/forums/general-defence/14129-body-armour.html

soft launch:
soft launch (light charge ejects the missile and then the main missile engine fires up)

urban tactic:
put rifle butt resting on your shoulder if barrel length is too long
decoy, open one door that the enemy shoots at and get one team go in the other

tactics:
At the beginning, we moved out at nights or early mornings in our 10 man team, stalking through the corn and weed fields. We would set up so the loud grunts would attract attention, and we would decimate everyone trying to move on them. Eventually with casualties and the amount of people to shoot, we split up into 2 and 3 man teams and spread out to go on as many patrols as possible to put our long guns in the fight. That said, depending on who felt like carrying what, my partner and I switched off between carrying the mk-11 while the other carried either a suppressed m4 with or without a 203.
After some incidents at night I cut some squares into my cover so I could throw some IFF patches on the sides and top, as well as my ms2000 strobe on the back.
I never burdened myself with anything that I could drink, patch a hole with, shoot or throw at people. I went with the philosophy that if I could run fast I wouldn't need a whole batman kit to get me out of a sticky situation.
I was completely streamlined and minimalistic
I immediately replaced the missing retention straps with hair ties, the fastmag band with elastic from my poncho, and wrapped the holes in the bottom of the plastic with camo-form clingwrap.
I had no problem reloading and remained completely streamlined, allowed me to prone out to avoid incoming machine gun fire and get as natural and comfortable as possible behind my longrifle.
Inside the bigger part of the BFG, I kept in it my lockpicking kit (which got no use, as we shot or blew up every lock we came upon) extra 152 batts, cliff bars or a box of match grade 7.62.
After going to live tissue course before deploying, I facepalmed at how terrible the issued IFAKs were. I gutted a CLS bag and ifak and put together in mine:

4 combat gauze
2 Pressure dressings
1 NPA
2 Needles for chest decompression
2 chest seals
2 sets of scissors
1 set gloves
1 nineline card
1 set of sutures
1 large pad of moleskin
a fuckton of bandaids
+
4 TQ's on the outside of my kit.

Of all the amps and GSW's out in Sangin, the average grunt needs to know how to pack a wound, apply a TQ, treat for tension pnuemothorax. My IFAK was perfect for this, I simply wish more Marines threw out the crap and kept the good stuff.

I ALWAYS stepped off with one full camelbak of water, a Miox pen, baby wipes and enough food to not go hungry over 24 hours.
Whenever I was the primary shooter, I would always have the vectors in my lower compartment. This way when I hit the deck to set up and shoot, my spotter could grab the binos off my back while I dialed in and started popping nugs off at people. If I was the spotter the binos would go on the shooters back. This setup worked phenomenally well for my partner and I and resulted in the quick dispatch of a few stinkies.
My Elcan performed exceptionally. My zero remained the same throughout the deployment flipping through 1-4x several times a day. Early mornings I would throw her on 1x with a very lowly illuminated reticule so I could keep both eyes open and simply put the red dot on what I wanted dead. As soon as we got sunlight I would throw it to 4 power and turn off the illum. Any time I was about to hit a building or group of buildings I would go to 1x and crank up the illum. 

my 9mil was housed in a safariland 6004 mounted to a belt adapter I dont know the name of. My 9mil was condition 1 for 7 months and NEVER left my hip unless I was taking a shower. (Condition One: A round chambered, full magazine in place, hammer cocked, safety on.)
If I wasn't carrying the m40a5, my mk-11 suppressor would be mounted dangerous end down in the little secret compartment at the top of my MAP. This allowed me to, if I had the time and desire to shoot suppressed, draw my can like a sword with my off hand and have it attached in under 5 seconds, ready to acquire a target and dispatch it. I could pull it in and out myself without any help and it stayed out of its way until it got to come out and hurt people.


http://gearsoc.com/board/viewtopic.php?f=28&t=115&sid=4f10d52e8b4d8b3616ed342923111392&start=300

penetration:
ack in the olden days swords with tapered ends were more effective against armor than ones with flatter broader blades

subsonic:
the speed of sound is 343.2 metres per second
anything above = supersonic
below = subsonic

compass:
is how the army measures angles. They don't use degrees for a lot of things, but milliradians, which there are 6400 of in a circle (roughly, NATO uses 6400, Warsaw Pact used 6000, 6283 is the real measurement).

The cool thing is the measurement tricks you can do easily with them, like finding lateral and height distances, and also ranges just using binoculars mil markings. Roughly 1 mil at 1000 meters is 1 meter left/right or up/down. You can reverse that as well so that for every 1000 meters 1 meter is 1 mil. So you can take a known measurement, like the height of a T-72 or a door and derive the range to the target.

Thats how they did things before easy access to laser range finders and GPS. 

this exactly, if you know the height of a average door you only have to do an easy calculation with mil's.

map reading night:
use dull and non-white light, coloured, so your natural NV doesn't go

enemy tactics:
couriers and messengers used, normally young so cannot be engaged e.g. 12 y/o
move aircraft off airfields into places in one or twos so if hit they cannot hit them all and you have a warning system
charges settled by the Argentines under the airstrip in order to deny its use to the enemy

comms:
radio rebro (re-broadcast -what you're talking about) in the field

cqb:
get acute angles on people, where you can see them
lead ahead on objects like corners so when someone runs around one you can engage and if they normally lean or go to a corner, aim for that and be ready to lead off it
use choke points like stair wells
keep moving and set-up ambush points from your last point of contact
instinctive shooting is a must, and to quickly adjust of your shots accounts for much more
use the environment for cover
in Arma you can instinctively engage and get as much firepower down to take out the immediate threat
check corners
have designated target buildings and points of interest

altimeter:
It isn't cocked on the wrist. There is too much of a chance of it rotating under the wrist from wind shear. You simply look to the left and rotate your wrist. It is worn at the normal angle just like a wrist watch.

movement:
crab walking
look down sights, hold shift to walk faster

demolitions:
wrap explosive ordnance for det in tarp
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarpaulin

headshot:
There is not much to say--if you work at a busy Level I trauma center for any length of time, you will discover it is not that unusual an occurrence for people to show up in the ER with handgun wounds to the head and survive (especially with FMJ's)... - DocGKR

heli ops:
using ladder to climb into it - can extract while on ladder
extraction rig
SF BG job to guard planes as they take off with LRPV's or quads, snipers... VIP protection role
can use VS panels attached to you or your backpack for identification

aircraft attack, use big weapons, 40mm and M202 multi-grenade launcher (WP grenades for barracks)

heli shooting:
YOU CAN PUT A AIMPOINT ON THE M107!!!!
[6:11:26 PM] Monty: .... why the hell would you want to ?
[6:11:35 PM] Rye: helicopter shooting
[6:11:42 PM] Monty: oooo good call !
[6:11:42 PM] Rye: they use aimpoint on the 107 for interdiction missions
[6:11:43 PM] Rye: ;D
[6:11:47 PM] Rye: looks weird but works
[6:11:49 PM] Rye: really really well
[6:11:59 PM] Rye: national guard in the US use it ALL the time to take out boat engines
[6:12:07 PM] Monty: wonder if a mod has a .303 browning...
[6:12:12 PM] Switch AAF: the us coast guard use the EOTECH on the m107
[6:12:22 PM] Switch AAF: to stop boats on the coasts
[6:12:31 PM] Rye: they use both
[6:12:38 PM] Rye: whatever the shooter prefers

urban ops:
cut city into sections to clear and guard
set-up corner barricade units
tank traps: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tank_trap
blown-up buildings, wrecked buildings
securing shot down helicopters/intel recovery/uav recovery
chainsaw used to get through wire and fences
part of a battle plan is predicting casualty rates and assessing off that, how to minimise and if to continue
use armoured vehicles

comms: traverse right, or left for gunner

atv vs motorbike aka mottie
atvs can carry out wouldn't, more stable but can tip on awkward features

AAR:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fpyk-K5Adko
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/After_action_report
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/After_action_review

kinds of orders: "The raiding party would destroy the deployed aircraft, radar site, ground crew and the force protection garrison before helicopter exfiltration to return to the deck before daybreak."
The patrol found that strong headwinds would increase the time taken to fly in from Hermes launch point, delaying time on target and reducing the available offensive window to 30 minutes, rather than the planned 90. In light of this information the planning emphasised the importance of destroying the aircraft as a priority, with support personnel as a secondary priority.
tactic: The Argentine version states that their marines remained in shelters during the Glamorgan shelling, so they were unable to face the SAS in combat.
Following this cue Glamorgan began shelling the Argentine positions on the airfield using high-explosive rounds, hitting the ammunition dump and fuel stores.


fire discipline - not shooting until commanded or absolutely have to, to save your life or your squadmates



officer and leadership: http://www.questionhub.com/YahooAnswers/20090624072256AAGxpaz
formal and informal orders
coc = commander of command
admin tasks
maintaining communication equipment w/ checklist
warning order - e.g. get ready to move in 12hrs for this obj
PC - patrol commander
set-up recovery site for the wounded and extract
wet landing - in water, wet extraction - extraction out of water by boat or helicopter
use recce parties
baggage party humps all the equipment to places and into transport vehicles
co-ordinating chaos
co-ordinate firing points onto different targets, don't say you are gunna hit it only, you're the PC!
co-ordinate OP's to say you are good to come in and attack, recce can tell you when you can attack or not
helis to orbit and OP's to give the order to come in
fall in/fall out, dismissed


equipment:
eotech - reticule projected through same plane as the target, therefore if you can see the reticule and it is on yoru target you can hit it <200m with most calibers, affording margine of error, keeps peripheral vision 
most of these kinds of sights have different colours in the middle, mark 4 CQ/T scope can change to all different colours
water landing - in wet suits, very sweaty
The groin protection isn't a part of either vest, its an attachment. So in real life both vest can use groin protection.

The MTV (BI Marines) offers a little more protection near the joins, but also slightly restricts movement.

The SPC (Bink Marines) offers the same protection to front and sides as the MTV, but with added flexibility.

Marines generally don't tuck their pants into their boots, they 'blouse' them. I have also seen plenty of pictures and videos where Marines don't have their pants bloused.
The main difference is weight. The MTV was disliked because it is farking heavy. 

quote:
Bravery without intelligence is little more the suicide.
tactical but practical


order of the day, patrol order
floppy hats = less intimidating than helmets, friendly presence patrols
equip: weather proof, shock proof

nav:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythagorean_theorem

finding the distance of sides of triangles
a squared + b squared = c squared.
use it for map / distance finding.

The theorem is invaluable when computing distances between two points, such as in navigation and land surveying.

http://www.savagecircuits.com/forums/showthread.php?78-GPS-Navigation-Part-1 READ VERY IMPORTANT
http://betterexplained.com/articles/measure-any-distance-with-the-pythagorean-theorem/

artillery:
confirm splash 'Splash confirmed, over'
splash 'Splash, out'
target 'Target destroyed'
'Firing on "INSERT GRID"'
'Next round on "INSERT GRID"
have spacing between rounds e.g. 20 seconds

enemy tact:
place rocks in 100m increments, so when a target comes you know the distance
rocks are normally a certain size, coloured or have an object near or on them
threatening posture

Jam:
ou are always advised to scream out "reloading" or "jam". The reasons are two-fold:

1)- So they [squadmates] know that you can't cover them at that second and won't advance or retreat until you have reloaded. On the flipside, they know to cover you (and your sector) as well till you are ready again.

2)- So they know you have not been hit. If you had not screamed out "reloading" then all they would have noticed is an abrupt cessation of firing from your position which may distract your squadmates to check if you are injured, etc. 

6bang:
can be used for room entry but there is a big chance for starting a fire, the 6 bang is better for this.
Several variations of the flashbang are in use with a multiplicity of effects. Often the shockwave causes electric lights, zirconium sparks, mixed with CS gas to go out.

CT:
http://home.hccnet.nl/22.sas/
http://www.militaryphotos.net/forums/showthread.php?4592-SAS-SBS-Photos/page2&highlight=special+air+service - read
http://www.stuff.themutual.net/index.htm

- Blue-black overall; protection against heat and flame, reinforced with extra flame retardant felt at the fore arms,       knees and shins. The overall has a drag handle so a casualty can be dragged out of the way fast
- CT12 respirator fitted with communication device and throat microphone
- Body armour; for different grades of protection extra ceramic plates can be added (2.5 kg each)
- Fire proof underwear, facemask (Balaclava) and gloves
- Non slip boots
- MP5 Heckler & Kock submachine gun (9mm) (replaced the Ingram submachine gun)
- Sig Saer pistol as back-up weapon plus three extra magazines or the proven Bowning Hi Power pistol
- Flash bang grenades (see Embassy)
- Charges (framed)
- Sledge hammer
- Crow bar
- Night Vision Goggles
- Knife

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siege

No 3 is the MOE man and provides an entry
No 2 throws a stungrenade with CS or CR gas
No 1 goes in first, followed by No 2
No 3 and 4 are for backup, in case of injuries or weapon stoppages
Room clearing is done "normally" under 4 seconds.

stairs:
My team’s technique involves the operator in the inside lane ascending backwards with the outside lane operator ascending forwards.
Divide them into lanes, near the edge or not.

aircraft assault:
http://home.hccnet.nl/22.sas/CRW-plane.jpg
limited arcs of fire because of multiple civilians and seating arrangements, small and limited aisles

maritime ship assault:
flying the flag - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_convenience

we are combat controllers, we want to control our destiny

types of boats: brigates, mothership, boarding craft, ship, dhow, skiff, merchant vessels

terminology: bow of the ship, starboard, yacht, fast/slow/speed boat, warship etc
USS United States Ship

'Approach and assist' - to check out suspect boats. Need permission to board, only emergencies and certain rules met allow units to board.
Searching for equipment to get onto other vessels, rockets or ammunition, weaponary, body armour
e.g. ladders, grappling hooks

sometimes throwing the weapons away and even bad people.... they normally have many young males and a lot of them
most fishermen show their fish straight away
there are smugglers carrying people also

3/4 of the world is water
distress call - a call from a distressed vehicle or individual, normally an emergency call for help
latitude/longitude etc positions on map, then work out bearing from you or other teams to and the distance and ETA (time)


mothership - the command ship, controlling all of the assault ships
empty ship? could be booby-trapped

recce: finding documents, RPG warheads (no rpg? = rpg must be with the pirates)
pirate ships: powerful outboards, ladders 12 feet + long, extra fuel, streamlined, money, clothes and equipment
destroy pirate vessels, even if empty - will set alight 99% of the time and will create a huge smoke trail and slowly sink into the sea



backlog in ports, so they have to wait to go into the harbour
this is when assault occurs most commonly
take out a ship? block the port! more to take out


LOW FREEBOARD = a low distance between your ship and getting onboard via a ladder etc (10-12 feet+)



assess remaining threat and keep units to monitor the situation before RTB


AW50 is used for taking out engine blocks
shooting from an unstable platform to an unstable target (helicopter and fast boat sniping)
high-beam lights for night operations and illumination


short barreled weapons for boarding, probably fragible rounds



encircle boats, make them surrender and talk to them to find out who they are



nav: nautical miles, dead reckoning, bearings
water: swell, etc
speed: knots

Heli's use observation kit, radar pods which track ships to use as evidence
pirates modify their boats compared with fishermens boats

boats (merchant vessels) use deterrents like pumping seawater through hoses and pushing it out off the sides so pirates cannot climb safely


2 Boats, search/assault boat (takes interpretors, know basics of the common language) and fire support boat (if one boat then fire support may be a chopper with MG and sniper gapabilities)


information on pirates and tactics
boarding manual and procedures
small boat tactics
beach recce
beach head assault

mouth to the sea - the corridor e.g. gulf of aden like area


BG:
Services include:

    security assessment
    threat analysis
    executive protection
    penetration testing
    logistics security
    event security
    risk assessment
    residential security
    VIP close protection
    assets protection


tank detection warnings:
Goodrich AN/VVR series, used on LAV-25.
http://www.army-guide.com/eng/product1298.html
http://defense-update.com/features/du-1-04/laser-warning-afv.htm
Shtora-1 complex, used on T-80,T-90,BMP-3.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shtora
AN/AVR-2 system
http://www.fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/equip/an-avr-2.htm
still can't find info about M1 and M2, only info that LWR installation was been planned to these vehicles in 1992
For the M1 Abrams you should check the M1A1 FEP and the M1A2 SEP. They should both be equipped with LRW systems and even EO jammers, although I don't know what systems they have specifically.


c4 / mk211:
@Dudeman24142 c4? is made from rdx contains 90% rdx plus inert binders?

training:
earning from a DVD or own your own is cool but it's not going to give you the feedback you need to improve your technique. Training with a qualified instructor who can diagnose your "problems" and tweak them here and there to improve your technique is a huge benefit that I strongly recommend you take advantage of.
target transition - moving from one target to another

dragon skin:
Fun thing is academic tests @ Stanford University Medical Center tried at even higher temperatures than the project maneger test. 170 ºF. The SOV-2000 vests passed the test without penetrations and survived multiple hits by 5.56, 7.62x39 and .30 cal. 


jam:
failure to? feed (FTF). Tap rack bang......Make sure the magazine is fully seated, re-rack the slide, attempt to fire.
rotating the gun to check chamber status and determine if it needs correction or reload. We do that on M4s too. 
it's not called a clip, in police academy, when we called it a clip, the instructor put a pink hair clip in your hair for the day, and hopefully the next day you will call it a? magazine.

blocking missions?


beachhead assault:
assaulting beachheads and everybody who served on an island understood (well, theoretically) that the most important part of the war will be to prevent the invading enemy from getting a foot on a beach and pushing inland. Permanent defensive installations (many of them old) remain in strategic vantage points and soldiers spend time in garrisons next to the sea.
RHIB - LMG to front, everyone jumps out or no LMG, everyone jumps out, uses smoke and advances up beachhead to nearest cover or tree line or berm
landing craft, opens and can use vehicles or infantry can run out and scatter
be a hard target on a long beach, use smoke

Identity Friend or Foe (IFF) system

arty:
M898 155mm SADARM (Sense And Destroy ARMor) round for the M109A6 .

Base ejects two SADARM submunitions at 1000m altitude. Ram-air parachute decelerates and despins round. At 300m main chute deploys and stabilizes munition. Begins searching for targets. When within ~150m of a target a shaped charge explosive detonates and forms an EFP (explosively formed penetrator) that can puncture the top armor of most MBT. 

hard corner CQB:
A hard corner can be defined as the corner(s) that is on the same wall as the door. Deep corner is the corner(s) is at the opposite end of the door.

breaching to assault:
breaching through a wall to assault something... not always a compound

maybe you are on the inside of the wall breaching out onto an oncoming car
the breach will cause lots of flying rocks and surprise the enemy

coriolis effect/drift:
Drift due coriolis effect is only about 6cm per 1000 meters (2.5" per 1000 yds) - not enough to be significant for us. Gyro drift by barrel rifling contributes more.

comms:
half-duplex", where people just cannot receive transmissions if they themselves are transmitting. We should implement full net blocking by the most powerful transmitter in any given area.
encryptinated communications and messages
crypto - hacking comms, listening in

sunshafts:
beams of light coming through objects like branches and tree tops


radios:
[3:26:36 PM] Matt 'Antipop' Hurley: i dunno. we dont use VHF and UHF in the army unless you're sig, we just have 343's, or SPR (Soldier Personal Radio's).


When a sniper takes a shot, there are countless variables to consider before squeezing the trigger --- wind speed, wind direction, range, target movement, mirage, light source, temperature, barometric pressure, and that's just the beginning.


friendlies? use VS panels, smoke etc... wave it in the air!


firefighters triangulate smoke to find out where it is, using a high tower.


loud objects are bad for comms but good for noise discipline or when engaging with an SD weapon e.g. oil drilling rigs


assaulting a group:
read the terrain and mentally note it so when you get closer you know where that group are, have been and where they are going to be
if they are prone, they are ready to fight and alert

"squirters":
enemies who take pop-shots.... you must isolte the amount of this happening

how to clear: ladder wells, tunnels, holes

rapid fire:
pumping a lot of rounds down range can cause barrel overheating... this is bad. it will affect accuracy but not only that if you are pumping an API or anything with explosive substances then it may blow up at the muzzle

Working with guerillas/allies:
Never trust them 100%. Especially guerrillas or 'allies' of whom belong to the country you are operating in or are a sect group, religious group or invading group.

vehicle stop tactic:
ram it, front on or tail end to make it spin out of control
ram it into oncoming traffic, the oncoming traffic may be friendlies who ram it then get out and secure it

explosive:
Fuel is a carbon monosachharide, or pure carbon depending on the mixture
Oxidant was KNO3
Oxidiser was again either the sugar, or in some cases Al and other metals :D

The primary calculation made to ensure safety is to determine the minimum “Net Explosive Weight,” or TNT equivalent required to breach the obstacle and establish the safe “stacking distance” for the entry formation from the breach point. The team, protected either by a portion of the building’s structure like a corner, or a ballistic shield, will not position themselves in an area where blast overpressure exceeds four pounds per square inch. The goal is to deflect the pressure wave around the team members, but it has to meet somewhere and usually the fourth man in the stack feels it the most. Interior overpressures are most important and are more dangerous because they are reflected from floors, ceilings and walls. Calculations are backed up by experimentation and the Anderson Blast Gauge is used in this area and charges are adjusted, tamped and repositioned accordingly. “P” for plenty is history. Intelligence is the key and the Breacher may conduct his own intelligence-gathering effort to gain as much information about a selected breach point(s) as possible. He can, or may be forced, to rely on informants, public servants who frequent the premises, construction plans and blue prints, observer snipers, drive-bys or close-target recces. Vulnerable high-value targets within the department’s jurisdiction should have site survey folders with photos and video on file.

jungle stack:
The Vietcong soldiers was the first to introduce the so-called "Jungle clip", and the idea is quite simple. Instead of pulling fresh magazines form you're vest or any magazine belt, you will simply just twist the "jungle clip" around in order to load a new magazine in the rifle. :wink:

The pro's for this type of magazine is that it should in theory be easier to switch between magazine when they are sticktaped together, and is therefor more accessible for the gunner.

The con's for the "Jungle Clip" is first of all the weight of the "Jungle Clip", it is heavy and heavy weapon is in my book never a positive thing. The second con is that the "Jungle Clip" can fall apart when in use because of the weak materials holding it together. The third con is that it can be hard to find magazine holsters that "Jungle Clips" can fit in ... 

enemy tactic:
play dead, especially if an armoured vehicle

Communication:
Verbal, 10%: Language specific, words, dialect

Non-verbal, 90%:
Voice Related:
Tone, pauses, speed of speech, intonation, emphasis, inflection.

Body Language:
Facial expression, eye-contact (Oculestics), gestures, posture, proxemics.

Other:
Clothing, touch (Haptics).

'Read back, over' read last message back











Radios:
Bibliography:

    Principles of Wireless Communications, Lars Ahlin, Jens Zander, and Ben Slimane, Studentlitteratur, 2006

Course objectives:

    Design and evaluate simple wireless networks, both in terms of coverage and capacity.

Upon completion of the course, the student will be able to:

    characterize fading multi-path radio channels in terms of Doppler spectrum, coherence time, power delay profile, and coherence bandwidth.
    distinguish the difference between large-scale fading and small-scale fading.
    describe and explain the effects of fading multi-path channels on the link performance of wireless communication systems.
    provide possible solutions to the problem of signal fading in wireless communication links. Describe different types of diversity and how they improve performance for mobile radio channels.
    apply propagation models and design basic radio communication links with respect to signal-to-noise ratio and outage probabilities. Special emphasis is given to propagation models for mobile and portable wireless communication.
    plan and analyze simple wireless networks in terms of coverage and capacity.


Description/Topics covered:

    Introduction to radio communication, the history of radio and its evolution throughout the years, the radio frequency spectrum.
    Radio wave propagation and modeling, free space propagation model, plane earth model, radio wave reflections and diffractions.
    Antenna systems for wireless communication.
    Radio link design: Path loss modeling and link budget calculations.
    Representation of radio communication signals and systems.
    Radio channel modeling: Time/frequency domain characterization of fading multipath channels. Discrete representation of fading multi-path channels.
    Techniques to combat fading multi-path channels. The principle of Diversity in wireless communication, combining methods.
    Introduction to wireless networks. Multi access methods, principle of frequency reuse and channel allocation. Elementary capacity analysis of wireless networks.



















Night-time:
MG:
Why 3-5 round bursts?
At night, the muzzle flash is too bright and this increases accuracy with less muzzle flash and chance of being seen.

NVG's for good reason! They use ambient light and amplify it so you can see reasonably well. So remember you need ambient light, hence why it is hard in environment like the jungle to use them affectively.

It takes 30-45minutes for your natural night vision to set in. Use scopes with hydrogen 3 illuminated crosshairs if no NV capability is available.



Flashbangs work! Just throw it, hold alt and look away or turn around, it goes off and you can rush the place.



You know what a human soldier does when he comes under fire?

He "rides on a rail" to the nearest cover, stops there, and animates firing from that cover in some fashion.

What is this?

Predictable. Therefore easy to destroy one who thinks they are doing the correct thing.


going cyclic:
I would like to see stressed A.I. "go cyclic", that is, fire blindly in multiple directions in an ineffective attempt to respond to undetected hostiles firing on their position (as in the sniper scene in "Hurt Locker").

This would include ZU-23's and other AA guns responding to a Shock & Awe attack.

Also, A.I. might "recon by fire", shooting single rounds into bushes and tall grass at intervals in order to flush out the enemy. 

Commando skills:

Basic infantry skills

Candidates are taught standard soldiering techniques such as patrolling, defence, section , troop level attacks and field firing.

More advanced techniques are taught:

    Amphibious Assault
    Cliff Assault,
    Helicopter Drills
    Small-unit tactics
    Survival

sea colour:
colour of sea changes on many factors ...

depth, minerals % and plankton (organic materials) richness
coral islands usually has way different color from e.g. volcano origin

then role plays time of day and weather or sky reflects on sea on calm sea

glock, safety:
that's a glock, there is no external safety, just 3 internal safeties and your finger hehe?

rain:
Having tried to shoot in a heavy downpour, I can tell you that rain actually does affect the ability to aim and hit a target accurately. The rifle fires the same but the ability to see with water coming at you horizontally can make it a real pain to locate a target. Rain can also affect accuracy of target identification (as in determining what type of vehicle that is down in the valley).

active defence systems:
use BIS A3 info on trophy
jammers can jam it

staying hiden? using binos? turn them on their side so only one lense shows and use that in one eye... less chance of shine

comms in vehicles:
short, short of target
over, went over the target
hit, hit the target
target, hit the target. Target means the shot is on target.

wound ballistics:
mafia hitmen always put at least 3 shots (or at least they are meant to) to the head. There has been cases where the person has survived one hit to the head - even at close range.
The reality is that we don't really know how our brain works. As long as Benny didn't hit anything too important you would be okay. The main issue is whether or not the round fragments, sends bone fragments into your brain, or ricochets off the inside of your skull.

Another issue would have to due with blood hemoraging into your brain. You can patch that up with medical treatment, but you'd want a damned good doctor to do it, or you might end up a vegatable. If anything in your upper spinal column or in what snipers call the apricot shot (I think they call it crossing the T, if it's frontal, though) where it passes through your Autonomic Nervous Center you're dead before you hit the ground.

If it hit where your nerve cluster (that's right behind your eyeball) you can expect complete and total blindness. If it hit anywhere in your Cordical Homunculus you would loose all feeling in that portion of your body. If there's enough damage to your frontal lobe, you'd lose your personality. If it his the Temporal lobe, you'd lose your hearing (depending on where it hit, you'd also lose the ability to walk) If it caused any kind of clotting, there's a good chance that eventually that would block a blood vessal, which would eventually burst, and kill you.

Hopefully it would exit your skull, as you wouldn't want a peice of lead sitting in your brain giving you lead poisoning on top of everything else. Even with a fairly large exit wound, you might be able to find someone to patch you up before you bled out. I guess that is the less than believable part of this whole story. You were burried with a head wound? that would get infected in a heartbeat.

Another thing that has been known to happen on occasion, and particularly with lower-velocity pistol rounds, is that the bullet doesn't penetrate the skull if there is a bit of an angle to its trajectory. Instead, the bullet veers to the side and follows the contour of the skull under the skin, and either exits farther around, or loses momentum and lodges somewhere between the skin and the bone. This would of course knock the victim senseless, and the shooter wouldn't realize they'd flubbed the kill. I remember a serial killer in Oregon who did this to one of his helpless victims, when he attempted to execute two women clerks in the back of a convenience store he robbed one night. One of them lived, even though he put one in the back of her head- it contoured around the side of her head and lodged near her eyebrow.


other factors; speed, efficeincy, accuracy, repitition (for good wound ballistics that kill)

corpse penetration:
msy, If you've seen the video about "Wound Ballistic" (?????), the penetration can not just cause with high-caliber bullets, but also small size one. That because the bullet casing is made with entirely covered copper, which we call Full-metal Jacket (FMJ). These bullets can penetrate with very less energy transfer when entering the body. The multi-person penetration is highly possible with it. 

tracers:
Tracers tend to burn off their glowing element which ends up higher/lower/left/right/ahead/behind the projectile so its not accurate for use in a light weapon such as a BAR or an assault rifle. Works great in a medium to heavy machine gun though.
All full auto support weapons has every 5th round as a tracer round. 

CAR:
CAR is meant for real-world handgun fight distances: from? 1" out to 7-10 yards. The largest room in your house, office, and inside a vehicle. This is not "target shooting" or a range application at all.

bullpup:
Bullpups are in no way lighter than any other kind of rifle. They have indeed some balance issues and weird trigger pull. But they keep a medium lenght barrel with a short lenght weapon.

cqb door clear: feeling around the door and looking in the gaps and at the hinges for signs of booby-traps etc
limited pin in cqb - swinging on the door and coming inwards to the hard corner. Operators normally move past you so you have seconds to fire before you muzzle sweep somebody.

CSW:
Weapons mounted on a low-mount platform such as the M3 tripod are going to have a limited traverse/elevation limit, even with the T&E disengaged. For example, the M2 mounted on an M3 will have an elevation limit of 16 degrees up, 19 degrees down without T&E, and about 6 degrees up, 14 degrees down with the T&E. Both the M2 and Mk 19 will have the same limits.

If you are placing such weapon systems along the ridge of a hill or in an area where they are not capable of covering a dead zone, crews must rely on other means. In most cases those areas are designated as indirect fire zones, but they can also be covered by small-arms from the soldiers (rifles, UGL, etc), mining the area, or setting up obstacles.

Taking weapon capabilities into consideration is a vital part of planning sectors of fire and determining which weapon systems will be employed to cover those sectors.

double feed:
double feed clearance. It's a check to see the condition of the weapon before proceeding on. Some advocate going from a tap-roll-rack (immediate action)? into a lock-rip-rack-replace (remedial action) because you cannot process information of a stoppage fast enough for it to be effective.


suppressor:
Firing a weapon is going to cause three different types of sound: 1) The noise generated from the firearm operation cycle; 2) The noise generated from the detonation of the cartridge; 3) The sonic crack of the bullet if/when it goes supersonic. This means that even when a firearm is using a suppressor and subsonic ammunition, there is still going to be audible noise generated from the cartridge itself plus the mechanical operation of weapon components.

Although a suppressor will usually decrease the audio level caused by cartridge detonation, it's not going to reduce all of it. And if the weapon is not a bolt-action, sound is going to be released from the ejection port. Also of note, while a bolt-action is only going to generate mechanical noise from the firing pin striking the primer, semi-automatic firearms are going to generate more noise from the mechanical cycling.

Although the TAC-50 is a bolt-action (which has nearly zero mechanical noise), the larger cartridge is still going to make a boom near the firer. The suppressor comes into play downrange, beyond the normal distance the sound of cartridge/mechanical noises are heard. So while your target 600m away might not hear anything, anyone within 5m of the rifle is going to get a nice loud bang and a quick chest thump.

quote:
Think hearts and minds, two to the heart, one to the mind...


SF Patrol:
Each man carries mission essential equipment so they can all compete the objective if they lose men.

You excrete in a plastic bag, labelling urine and faeces seperately.

In a disguised patrol you would try to fit in, or wear traditional dress or at least something that fits in. If you don't, then wear something that makes you look like a tourist; as they did in Libya, with camera's and hidden weaponary. The camera's could be used for recon and surveillance.

You work with the pilot of contact drills for during flight, departure and landing.
The pilot or crewmen will inform the team of how many feet or meters off the group. At around 2 feet you can afford to jump out onto reasonable terrain (flat and light, no jagged edges) with a light weight kit on.
But with full combat load you must be closer to the ground. The helicopter tries not to hit the ground but to hover above it, hitting the ground will create sign and need thrust to lift back off.

You can jump out with nothing and have the crewmen chuck out your gear. The crewmen inform the pilot of when they are all out of the chopper.
You can go to all around defence or just scoot in a certain direction from the landing zone to a designated RV point. The all around defence point doesn't have to be next to the chopper - it can be 100m away.

MSR's do not have to be roads. They can be in the middle of nowhere, like in the Gulf War they ran through the middle of the desert with no road. Junction boxes gave away landlines and communication lines in the area.


Picquets are always set-up and comms are kept up during this. Designated Comms menu back at base are on call 24/7 and swap the role between themselves.
A scout or someone doing picquet may attach string to the other patrol members and TUG it if they need to alert the patrol without making a noise. They shall then signal enemy with the thumbs down, give a target indication (distance, amount and description).

'This is (callsign) we are ground call sign, over'
Bumped frequency; a radio with the wrong frequency, therefore you have lost communications with the other units unless you get the right frequency.
Bumped radio; the radio doesn't work so you usually get the next resupply to give you one.

If compromised, you get on the radios to tell that you are compromised. The immediate action plan will go into the works and whatever escape and evade plan will start. This may be a helicopter picking the patrol up at a precise RV at a precise time.
Or a vehicle playing certain music picking them up in a precise location at a certain time over the next few weeks, similar plans to these.
You try move quickly if compromised in the light, move until dark and then you can start to use less tactical moves if the enemy doesn't have NV or OBs equipment.

You try to disguise yourself the best you can. Using enemy weapons, uniform or acting as a civilian.

M4 Rifle in E&E Plan: in the stock is the emergency currency and some essentials including survival kit. Compass on it or within it. Some guys have compass on the M4 - attached to the side of it.

You may bin the bergens e.g. dump pack. You keep essential kit like water and ammo.


Single line formation useful in sand, especially soft sand which you fall into. Other footprints are good to run in.

Doubling back on the position you came from.
Looping the position you came from to ambush.
These are E&E plans that may involve combat.

Shout 'man down' if a man is injured or dead. If confirmed dead shout 'man down, dead'. And move on! Strip all essential kit such as intelligence, maps and mission essential kit. Other things can be taken if you are light enough like spare ammo etc.
If you're hit, try to not shout 'I'm hit' but 'I'm injured, heavily' or 'I'm injured, bleeding'. Something to inform the medic. 'I'm hit, might go unconscious'.



CT: 'Man down, Room 4'. And move on!



Pre-combat Check:
Make sure your pouches are closed, pockets are closed, magazines on tight. Psych yourself up for war. Get aggressive, turn it on.
If you can, you double stack (jungle stack) magazines for a quick reload. And get all combat equipment ready, e.g. grenades up front etc. And spare belts or ammo linked across your chest.
Check your comms, radio antenna. Desert dust can get into all the ports so it might need a blow like your damn xbox... same thing with comms, a quick blow and it suddenly works.



Motorbikes in patrol act as scouts, early warning detection systems.
They also act as couriers between the vehicles.
Just like on a foot patrol you get each man to pass the message down the line, either verbally whispering or with hand signals.

LRPV's have the lights blacked out.


Enemy Bridges are the best guarded. In most circumstances.
Enemy tactics, minefields: Pick up the largest rock, get in single file, the person in front picks the rock and drops it a few feet infront, this carries on. The minefield is cleared. A mine would detonate and the blast would go against the rock not the person. They tend to jump down to prone as they drop it.



River crossings - all around defence or checking each lane of the water and across the opposite bank. The scout usually goes first lightly equipped.
You go across without support with your leggings inflated or a bergen, or you go across by static rope.
Small, light streams may be crossed without this hassle.


In a die or die situation you must keep moving forward, do the last thing they expect. You're dead anyway so you take the fight to them, try maintain that element on surprise to take out as many as possible.


Captured? Damage limitation. Tell as little or no information. Give vague comments.
Assume the worst, that they told the Iraqi's everything so other operations are cancelled or changed.

The enemy tries making you sign things and say 'yes' or 'no'. Never say these words or sign anything.

Sniper weapons: no first or second pressure on the trigger, just squeeze and it'll go off.
Assault weapon: first and second pressures, first you can squeeze and it'll come down loose but won't go off and a bit harder squeeze and it will.

'Stoppage' 'Clear' or 'Stoppage' 'Up'. Correct comms for stoppages.
If you are moving up the lines then you shout coming through or similar so the guys know you're coming. Just as you would say, 'stepping over your line of fire' or 'line of sight' if you were moving past. The person should awknowledge this with 'Ok' or 'No'.

Close observation patrol (COP). Close Target Recce (CTR).

"Thank God for those who? do what we do not, and cannot" - Annoymous.


Check your rear before contact or during at somepoint incase you get out flanked or surrounded. You have to have somewhere to retreat to.

If a scout comes out and see's enemy and has to come back to the patrol, the scout will radio when they are coming in.
'Coming in' the patrol will say 'Come in' if the scout is permitted to do so. A password system might be used e.g. 'Romeo' the reply being 'Juliet'.


You give a proof of life statement on the camera. If you're captured and they film you or get you to give information you try place the proof of life statement in there so when it's publicised then the Government will know you are alive.






re-zero:
In order to have a scope rezero itself you would need to shoot first and have the scope track the bullet by radar and then adjust, or have a laser mounted to the barrel and have a scope able to pick up the laser reflection, calculate the distance and the offset. Either way the scope would need to know where it was facing and where the barrel is facing. This isn't really the same as a modern tank's fire control system. Those systems still have to be zeroed before they can be used. 


SEMI VS BOLT:
hey why do they say semi-auto's are less accurate than bolt action
[5:35:21 PM] Rye: ?
[5:38:18 PM] glenn_aaf: its because the bolt on a bolt action locks in tight behind the case and they have very tight tolerences but in a semi auto its just the spring loaded bolt slaming back forward into the back of the round and causing it to go off




GRAW:
Saying that 'Special Operations' is...whatever... can lead to misunderstandings. Not all Special Operations units share every role. The Ghosts were originally part of 5th Special Forces Group - which is Army Special Forces - which is incorrectly referred to as the Green Berets. We say this is incorrect because a Green Beret is a hat, not an Operator. Special Forces has become a misnomer when used generically. Army SF is the only US SOF unit that actually bears that name, Special Forces. It is best to define either directly or by context exactly to whom you are referring when you say Special Forces or Special Operations.

Army SF does have the mission to go behind the lines. We have done it throughout our history, we did it in Iraq in '91, and then again in 2003 as well as a few other places. We also carefully plan the loads which we carry in based on exacting mission analysis - part of MDMP and the mission planning cycle - and we meticulously arrange for resupplies. The Team plans. Not higher, the Team. The Team themselves plan all of this. The mission comes from higher but 99% of all the other coordinating functions are planned by the ODA.

SOF learned a very harsh lesson in '91 when two Teams - 1 US Army SF and 1 British SAS were compromised and left without mobility. You are not going to see many missions at all and except in the most remote areas where SOF does not maintain a vehicular mobility or an extraction option. The missions in GRAW were total BS for the most part and not the kind of thing where an SF Team would have operated (an urban op) with no mounted capability or standby rotary wing extraction capability. Urban operations are par for the course...just not in the incorrect, tactically deficient, and haphazard method portrayed in the game. As I stated earlier, the problem and confusion began in the title - this includes all platforms, PC through consoles - with the writing, basic game design, and level design. Ubisoft decided to cash in on the Ghost Recon name but instead of trying to maintain an air of believability, they tossed it out the window and had command intentionally sending a 4 man SF unit, dismounted, against armor. Ridiculous and far away from the bounds of realism.

One of the first things the US is going to do is establish air superiority. I am not insulting any other country as there are some great airforces out there. Tornado pilots? My hat is off to you. You guys are some of the most daring lot I have ever seen. But the US is going to do that in any country. Hell, the Brits will be right there with us, wingtip to wingtip. That means when SF guys are on the ground they are going to be able to call those airstrikes most of the time. There are rare occasions when it isn't possible due to collateral damage or the fact that a particular unit is on the ground BEFORE open action and hostilities are commited. Of course then the mission sets will be different as well with an extraction still an option even if it means moving to a point. But when the President is in danger, and all civilians have fled the city, this is no longer an issue. On those rare occasions where there is no other option against armor organic weapons systems will be employed by the team.

There seems to be an effort to rectify this 1 feature - airstrikes - in GRAW 2. The odds are it will be at very precise locations without any sense of believability. The mechanics of what really occurs in calling an airstrike in a bad situation could raise the gamer's hair. But once again this has been ignored. The proof is in the video. It looks cool to some people but you could have had that experience magified a hundred times had they tried a little realism with it. From what I seen they are apparently still writing missions that have the Ghosts being employed like they were a Fire Team from the 82nd Airborne. Perhaps they should just call it that, stop grave robbing the Ghost Recon name, and stop misleading people about SF.

They could have made a really great game with GRAW that put you on the edge of your seat, took realism to a new level, and was engrossing and fun at the same time. Somewhere, someone decided that realism meant sim, and sim meant boring. Nothing could be further from the truth. Low brow creativity and Spike TV mentality in mission design has to be pushed aside first if there is ever going to be any serious hope for such an experience in the future.


Anyone who has played the Ghost Recon franchise, and there are millions of gamers who have, knows that the experience mixes entertaining gameplay with realistic future scenarios, equipment and weapons. To ensure the authenticity of this near-future warfare, developer Red Storm Entertainment has worked with Andy Brittenham, Active Duty Special Forces Instructor, United States Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School, Ft Bragg, NC.

"My involvement with Ghost Recon first began as it did with many, as a gamer," said Brittenham. "I came on board with Red Storm at the end of Ghost Recon 2 and was able to provide contributions to Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon® 2 Summit Strike and Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter™. The majority of my work has been to infuse the series with the correct operational methodology as well as providing non-classified imagery, equipment recommendations, and nomenclatures."

Brittenham said that Red Storm's idea is to offer their development team the feeling of a combat situation from the Operator's perspective. These elements range from the language used on the team to the command relationships in a Special Forces group and their deployed elements. Brittenham has also helped to insure the accuracy of the units utilized in the game and the authenticity of their respective combat roles.
"Despite its importance, at the heart of the technology is the warrior that is enormously skilled, highly trained, and unwilling to lose. It is the soldier that drives the technology rather than the other way around."

Brittenham is a Sergeant First Class in the United States Army. He's served his entire career of 18 years in the Special Forces. He joined up in 1982 and arrived at the 5th Special Forces Group in 1983. After a five-year break, he returned to the Army and Special Forces in 1998. Brittenham's assignments included the 5th Special Forces Group, 10th Special Forces Group, 1st Special Operations Command, a SF SMU (Special Mission Unit), and United States Army JFK Special Welfare Center. His training included the Special Forces Qualification Course, Airborne School, the Military Freefall Course (HALO School), Special Operations Combat Diver School, Special Operations Combat Diver Supervisor, Advanced Special Operations Techniques, Operations and Intelligence Course, and Special Forces Advanced Urban Combat. This is the experience and training that allows him to provide vital assistance during the development of the Ghost Recon games. '

Real Military Tactics
"Prior to deployment to Iraq, my ODA actually spent time practicing CQB by utilizing Raven Shield when appropriate range facilities were not available," said Brittenham. "It increased the absorption of operational techniques for less experienced members."

Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter will reveal much of the operations of Special Forces to the public. Of course, there are some elements of Special Forces that must always be shrouded in mystery. According to Brittenham, some mystery is essential to maintain operational security.

"The game allows the player to witness the amazing dedication and relentless drive possessed by a SOF operator," said Brittenham. "Through a virtual environment, the gamer is able to experience a taste of the teamwork that allows SOF operations to succeed in the face of overwhelming odds. For some, it may be the spark that ignites the desire to join the ranks of a very elite group of warriors."

Brittenham said the authenticity department at Red Storm Entertainment has been very careful to observe technology trends as they relate to the evolution of the battlefield. The team has coordinated with numerous defense contractors to gain an insight into the growing technologies that will be implemented in the next decade as well as observing the improvisational habits of the individual soldier.

"Such improvisations are out of necessity-the mother of invention," said Brittenham. "This allows a fairly accurate take on the future battlespace as portrayed in Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter."

Future Combat
Technology is playing a major role on the modern battlefield, and that's a trend that will continue with new advances. Brittenham said that the C2 node is incredibly important to success on the modern battlefield.It not only allows commanders to direct deployed troops, but also in allows them to support those troops with the most up-to-date intelligence in the form of data, imagery, and live feeds.

"Hand-in-hand with this idea is the interconnectivity between the warrior on the field and various combat support platforms such as aircraft and friendly ground units," added Brittenham. "Despite the importance of the technology, at the heart is still the warrior; enormously skilled, highly trained, and unwilling to lose. It is the soldier that drives the technology rather than the other way around."

An Army of One
Brittenham believes that advances in technology will follow a two-pronged approach. First will be the evolution at the troop level. This will come in the form of adaptive camouflage, reactive personal body armor, and a more intelligent personal weapons system. He said that total integration of personal equipment is one of the keys to success on tomorrow's battlefield. At the same time, the integration of that individual warrior into his team and into higher command will come in the form of advanced interconnectivity that binds the individual with the overall battle force.

"This allows even large operations to adapt to the fluidity of battle and related changes dictated by evolving intelligence and combat situational matters," said Brittenham.

Technology will also continue to play a major role off the battlefield. While there is no substitute for hands-on training, Brittenham knows that the inclusion of digital training (via videogames and virtual simulations) can accelerate the learning that occurs during those live sessions. It can prepare the individual through familiarity with techniques as well as allow the refinement of operational methods.

"It maximizes the available training time," said Brittenham. "Digital training can also provide an immersive planning tool for the conduct of actual operations by utilizing realistically reproduced terrain, weather, light data and equipment. A real-world operation could have its chance of success vastly enhanced by digital rehearsal."




Stance:
The bladed stance is good for accuracy though if you are wearing body armor + plates if you get shot it is much better to give your armor a chance to do its job and save you from having a round tumbling around in your body.

What the more modern "squared" stance you can engage targets to your weak/support side more quickly without changing your footing and you don't suffer as much from losing your ability to engage accurately if you decide to engage during a mag transfer. 



Pilot:
In fact the exact opposite happens in real life with a helo.
A helicopter does not create a vacuum and start to fall when in the hover in ground effect (H.I.G.E.), it actually creates a "ground cushion" which assists the helo to hover. With hover out of ground effect (H.O.G.E.) on the other hand, the hover does require more power in real life to hover but still no vacuum.
The only time a helo sinks while still in powered flight is in a case of vortex ring state (aka settling with power).

Having said that, it is important from a realism factor, that at least the very basics of helo aerodynamics be covered if we want a better realism experience.
An example of this would be the right yaw in a helo with blades spinning in an anti-clockwise direction with a required "left pedal input" to counter the torque effect on the helo or the effects of wind in game on a helo. Getting into and out of a tight LZ for example with a wind component is a lot harder than with no wind component. Men have died trying, literally! So a wind component at the very least would be my first prize from a wish-list perspective.

lease can we get a wind component for the aircraft.
As a real life helo pilot, this is one of the challenges I sorely miss in game.

An autorotation downwind is very different to an auto into wind.
Also getting in and out of LZ's with a crosswind will also raise the realism level that BIS's ARMA is synonymous with.
Also it should have options to be variable (i.e. wind direction and velocity) or to set it as a constant.

This would also attract many "new" prospective players who traditionally look for more than just a flight sim.
There are many flight "simmers" who want to be operational and not just fly around aimlessly like in FSX.
For me and I'm sure for many other RL pilots, we fly around in the day in RL but never get to experience military operations so this would be really cool for us.

Please can the aircraft also have an option for wind speed in knots and altitude in feet above both terrain and sea level.
Currently I suspect this is currently in kilometres per hour and meters for height in ARMA 2.

Lastly, some of the runway headings in ARMA2 are not correct and are swapped around.




Talking about small ranges, the shotgun is, as a scientific study says, the deadliest weapon within a range of 100m.
wheel well = under wheel

newtons law:
People don't fly when they get hit by a bullet, they just collapse out of shock or injury. Seriously look it up on youtube or something there are plenty of clips where someone takes a bullet, generally their legs just collapse from beneath them and they fall over.

It's obvious using F=MA and Impulses, and the 3rd Law. A bullet when fired doesn't send the person flying, firing a NATO assault rifle is like having someone poke you in your shoulder it most certainly doesn't send you flying, if a bullet could knock someone 2 metres back like they do in the movies then the gun that fired the bullet would easily bruise the person shouldering it. 

I've seen several interviews with (WW2) veterans who were hit but not lethally, and their consistent impression was one of a body-wide *WHACK* followed by an involuntary fall. I think it's a basic physiological coping mechanism. In most cases they knew they were hit, but didn't know where they were hit until several seconds after. It was just a body-wide thudding sensation. 

[7:40:20 PM] Gnrnr: Dunno.  Usually the nervious system is massivly interuppted and you collapse when instant death I thought.

subsonic ammo:
Not to get off topic, but: sub sonic ammunition only prevents the bullet crack downrange once the bullet breaks the sound barrier, hence subsonic. The sound suppressor on the weapon itself suppresses the noise caused by the igniting gun powder. I'm not sure about most units, but mine never had sub sonic ammo for our suppressors, afaik. Thus, the bullet would still crack down range, but itd be harder to tell where it came from.

I don't for a fact, but I would bet most units that have MP5SD's don't use subsonic ammo considering most of their targets are gonna be so close the bullet wont have a chance to travel that far anyways. Also, the 140 grain 9mm round wont break the sound barrier anyways. 

what about pain and cramping, seizing up of muscles?
[9/06/2011 11:07:56 PM] Gnrnr: afterwards for sure.  It like when you really hurts yourself.  You can see the wound, but there is no pain yet.  Give it a couple of minutes and it hurts like buggery.

underwater ops:
The Secumar has two bottles, inverted, one on each side of the vest. This provides buoyancy control like a normal BC. It seems outdated but it's what everyone still wears. We also have a nylon version I'll send pics of. Notice the Draeger with the black O2 bottle? Notice how that bottle appears bigger? it is. That is the MOD 2 version instead of the older MOD 0 version with reduced capacity.

The mask if the Mk 48 Draeger mask. This fits on the Draeger and replaces the mouthpiece. This allows you to have a full face mask with underwater communications.

creoBellum Training Diaries
071-326-0501 - Move as a Member of a Fire Team (need to change these links)
Fire team Members

Kits may vary, but standard appears to be:

    SL (Officer)
    Automatic Rifleman
    Grenadier
    Ammo Rifleman

It is the SL's discretion who should be where and what kits they should use.
Formations

    Wedge
    Staggered File
    Line
    File

 

These apply for every formation:

    SL is usually on point (to be easily seen by all members) and controls the fire team.
    Relative distance is determined by terrain i.e more open, greater the distance. Keep same relative distance between SM's.
    Maintain visual contact with your SL.
    Know your position within the fire team and cover your arcs while moving.
    Rear guard should regularly check behind for flankers while moving.
    When SL stops, get into your defense position and cover your arcs.
    If your SL stops and remains standing, you crouch.
    If your SL stops and crouches, you go prone.
    If your SL stops and goes prone, you are usually in trouble.
    Unless under fire or ordered otherwise, maintain your position within the formation.

Wedge Formation

    Used under normal operating conditions.
    1 - 2 x "Frag distance" between SM's.

Staggered File

    Used in urban environments to cover more arcs and blind spots, can also be used when moving with a road.
    1 x "Frag distance" between SM's.

Line

    An offensive formation primarily used when assaulting or engaging, enabling more weapons up front for firing.
    2 x "Frag distance" between SM's.

File Formation (Column)

    Used when fire team is in close terrain, dense vegetation or limited visibility.
    Distance between SM's so that next SM is visible.

 

 

071-326-0502 - Move Under Direct Fire
Selecting the Next Position

    Move within 200m of your enemy's position to engage.
    Choose a route that:

    provides minimum exposure to the enemy and
    does not your cross team members fire.

    Communicate with your fire team members before moving.

Movement Techniques

    High Crawl
    Low Crawl
    Rush

High Crawl (Crouch)

Use when:

    cover or concealment is available
    poor visibility for enemy observation
    speed and minimum exposure are required

Low Crawl

Use when:

    cover less than 30cm high
    enemy prevents movement
    speed is not critical

Rush

Use when:

    brief exposure to enemy
    time is critical

Steps in performing the rush:

    While concealed, move away from your last firing position.
    Select your next position in advance.
    Keep travel distance between 3 to 5 seconds.
    Run to the next position.
    Go prone and crawl to your firing position.
    Provide cover fire for fellow members.

Fire and Movement

Two elements:

    Fire element - provide continuous and steady suppressive fire on enemy.
    Movement element - only moves once Fire element has begun covering fire.
    Elements are interchangeable.

 

 

 

071-326-0503 - Move Over, Around, or Through Obstacles (Except Minefields)

    Cover your advance by throwing smoke
    Fire buddy should:

    turn away from you
    seek a covered location
    communicate when you should move and
    provide cover for your advance

 

 

 

071-311-2007 - Engage Targets with an M16-Series Rifle
Finding Cover

    Look for natural cover with good observation visibility.
    Use a prone position whenever possible.
    Use kneeling when prone visibility is not viable.
    Use standing only when prone and kneeling are not appropriate.

Quick Sector Check

    Quickly scan left-to-right the area immediately in front of you.
    Then scan right-to-left as far as you can observe.
    If no enemy is identified, move onto Systematic Sector Check.

Systematic Sector Check

    Check left and right flanks.
    Scan 180' left-to-right up to a distance of 50m from your position, focusing on objects that the enemy could be using for cover.
    Alternate 180' scan right-to-left, left-to-right at 50m intervals from your position.
    Repeat at 50m intervals until entire sector has been checked.

Recognise Target Indicators

    Be quiet and listen for weapon or movement noises
    Look for any movement or weapon flagging
    Look for silhouettes and mismatched camouflage

Appropriate Aiming Techniques

    When aiming at targets either not moving or moving toward you, aim for the target's centre of mass using the side-aiming technique
    When aiming at a laterally moving target, use your sight posts to aim at the target's centre of mass (not sure how this works in PR)

Quick Fire Technique

If your target is up to 30m away, while standing, shoot from the hip focusing on the target's centre of mass.
Engage Multiple Targets

Fire first at the one presenting the greatest danger, usually in the following priorities:

    A flanking enemy,
    An enemy with a destructive weapon, or
    An enemy physically close to you.

amphib:
conducting ASW, ASUW, EW, AW, Strike W, and AAW.

ace weapon: 4x "flip-to-side" scope with the eotech

knive:
Well, if you are doing it correctly you will have his mouth already covered.
Leaves you plenty of time to dig your knife around till you find it, by which time the guys throat and arteries are totally FUBAR anyway.

There are very few totally silent firearms, most will involve locking slides and catch bags for the shell casings or like the Wellrod which is almost completely silent but you wouldn't want to miss with thanks to it being single shot and it also has a very low recommended range of around 24 yds to be effective. Any MGS4 players will recognise it as the dart gun, in RL it is in fact a lethal weapon.

pilot:
Quote:
For aircraft I think a little more simulation, turning cirlces, mass vs airflow, proper stalls, proper damped undercarriage, even thrust vectoring, would be nice for raising the bar a bit.
Mass vs airflow sounds like a very tall order, unless you're talking about wind effecting flight, which I think is imperative. Along with the speed indicators reading air speed, not ground speed. 

subsonic:

1. If you think cracking sounds or whizzing sounds are "fake" - as you previously stated:

The cracking sound is created when a rifle fires a round that is faster than the speed of sound, creating a sonic boom when it enters/leaves the sound barriar. you can actually here this and observe it as cracking (altho im not entirely sure if its omnidirectional, as you can really only here it in arma if your in front of the bullet.) Pistols and sub machines guns dont emit cracking because they fire sub-sonic rounds.

2. You claim that rifle fire from 1km away sounds unrealistic:

Ill explain the basics of sound - its composed of many different frequencies and wavelengths. Lower frequency sound waves travel farther than higher frequency sound waves. Plus lower frequency waves can penetrate material (thats why everyone on the block can hear a cars subwoofer hundreds of meters away before they can hear any actual music)

so I would say the "dark" boom you get from rifle fire km's away is a result of the same principle: higher frequency sound dies out much faster and turns into other energy. And the only thing thats left is the lower frequencies, which you hear as gunfire.


You can test this yourself - put on a piece of music, and listen to it with/without subwoofer, in another room. And search youtube for sonic boom. 


fortifications:
Small bunker- too tall for mini tripods, too small for standing tripods. It's knee high. It won't protect statics. You can only be covered if you kneel down.

Large bunkers- is too high for statics. Only regular units in standing position. Also making Machine gunners have bad aim.

Tower- is a little better. If you use a standing tripod at the top it's the same as small bunker, however, since your targets are lower than you, the angle provides slightly better cover.

Trenches- a waste. It looks like they were made for the minitripods but are very awkward and still don't provide good cover.


Fuze Type 	Description 	 
  	
Fuze Quick
	Fuze quick is a point-detonating fuze, and is used with HE and WP projectiles. Fuze quick is effective against standing and prone personnel, armored and soft-skinned vehicles. Fuze quick is useful for adjusting fire and engaging targets on ridgelines; but it is not recommended against entrenched troops or those on uneven ground. 	 
  	
Fuze Delay
	A fuze delay functions 0.05 seconds after impact. A fuze delay allows penetration of dense woods and light earthworks. 	 
  	
Fuze Time
	Fuze time has a mechanical or electronic timing device that functions a set time after being fired. Fuze time, when used with HE and WP, should be adjusted to obtain an effective HOB; then these projectiles are useful against troops and vehicles in open and in trenches, as well as in rough terrain. Because of the variations between fuzes, fuze time should never be used for High Angle fire with these projectiles. Time fuzes are the only fuze used for Base-Ejecting projectiles (e.g., Illumination, ICM, SADARM) and smoke. 	 
  	
Fuze VT
	VT (Variable Time) fuzes arm approximated 3.5 seconds before anticipated impact. They then use a radio signal to determine the shell's proximity to other objects (especially the ground). When they pass within a set distance of other objects (for example, 8 meters), the fuze functions. HE/VT is effective against all targets that Fuze Time is, except that it is not recommended for targets under canopy, such as those in woods.


static line jump:
watch canadian mil vids
check aaf forums

freefall:
The U.S. Army in the 1950s incorporated stablizing the body in free fall as perfected by Jacque Istel to enable exits from aircraft at higher speeds and altitudes than by static lines and deployment bags opening the parachute after exit. This expertise is embodied by successive generations of U.S. Army Golden Knights parachute team victories in world competitions. The problem is that military free fall (MFF) using body position control requires skills and a conscious Paratrooper and has limits on the amount of equipment that can be attached. The Russians came to a different and better conclusion to unclutter aircraft upon exiting and get HALO/HAHO capabilities--deploy a small pilot or drogue chute to stabilize the body in free fall; they can jump twice as fast as us (300 mph) lower (200 feet) or higher (up to 12, 000 feet). Drogue chutes are now standard for tandem jumps when another person is attached to even the most skilled stabilized body position jumper.

http://www.combatreform.com/T-21.htm

So, if we are already using drogue chutes for tandem MFF jumps, why not ALL THE TIME? Applying the Russian drogue chute system to our new T-11 parachutes would enable us to jump IN FRONT OF C-17 engines if side jump doors were fitted there as 3 x M113 Gavin light tank/APCs on platforms roll-out the rear ramp for tighter assembly on the ground below. Another option would be to follow the Gavins out the rear ramp using the drogue chute to deploy the main canopy.

The video shows a high altitude delayed opening (HALO) jump which is great to stay above enemy air defensive fires and/or sneak in undetected. We can have THOUSANDS of Paratroopers doing the same thing for high-altitude mass-tac Airborne operations if we employed drogue chutes instead of trying to make everyone a civilian sky diver. What gets the job done BEST is what matters not who is more-Airborne-than-thou.

http://www.combatreform.com/highaltitudemasstac.htm

There is a lot to learn from our former and even current human enemies. Let's not let our AmeroFascist arrogance blind us to good ideas and practices wherever they come from as long as they are not immoral.

Want to know more?

Our book, "Air-Mech-Strike: Asymmetric Maneuver Warfare for the 21st Century" is ONLINE for FREE skyjacked by Google!

http://books.google.com/books?id=RCWtHnYZ0LMC&pg
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=38RqKs9_qFg

knife: You need a lot of wielding training and stealth training in case to make knife much more worthy in the stealth killing, not a console thingy that you just run behind them and press a button. Cutting wrongfully is also result a grave consequence.

However, no matter how stealthy or even a ghost, in human system people will immediately reflex from a sudden signal under 0.6 seconds. Which mean there's still a possibility to struggling from getting assassinated. Silent ranged weapon however, when he's hit, he will just feel get hit. That's why some assassins also brings with a crossbow or dagger (if trained really well with it) if range is matters.

Overall, I don't think having knife is a bad idea, but people were too much overrated the functionality of the "ancient weapon" (knife is invented in stone-age), there's still a lot of limitation to stealth kill with a knife, at least with proper training and skills that would be another case. 


scope: That effect is called Barrel Distortion / Pincusion. It affects Wide angle lens in a more pronounced manner than Tele lenses, mostly due to mechanic limitations but also physically you can't engineer a "fish-eye" lens (180 degrees FOV) without distortion, no matter whatever compensations one makes.
depth of field is about the eye's focus


bayonet: The US Marines were engaged in close quarter bayonet action against the Germans in WW1 and scared the living dogshit out of them so much they earned the name "devil dogs". Modern armies fight smart

tank: I thought tanks and other armored vehicle actually have a hammer on the hull so that infantry can grab it and start hammering the hull.

history: invention of Arquebus lead to the invention of the assault rifle 400 years later

In a stay-behind operation, a country places secret operatives or organisations in its own territory, for use in the event that the territory is overrun by an enemy. If this occurs, the operatives would then form the basis of a resistance movement, or would act as spies from behind enemy lines. Small-scale operations covered only small areas, but larger stay-behind operations envisaged entire countries being conquered. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stay-behind

Liquids in contact with the skin pull body heat away 30% faster than if dry


I'm not a Major. I was just the guy with aerial recon photos and more detailed maps that was actually kicking in doors while that Major friend of yours did photo ops for Public Affairs.

There is a difference between those who do and those who have the pay grade that don't have to do.


CQB: DD is called P1, its made with 6,8,10 or 12 bangs. There is P2 too,its with bangs and CS together. Conserning what type of DD(Distraction Device) the team is using, I think that it is a so-called "Multi Burst".
http://www.civil-defence.org/s10-multiburst-noise-flash-distraction-device-i126.html
you really dont understand just how loud and bright flash bangs are do you? you? can loose your sight for up to an hour and the flash is literaly painful.


The M720 has 190.5g of Comp. B, The M720A1 uses 358g of PAX-21.

PILOT: Mach 1 at 1000m is more than 1200km/h.
At the low operating altitudes that Arma2 forces us into, Sonic boom pressure would be devastating to some of the shacks we encounter in chern and taki. Doors blown off hinges, windows blown out of frames, and quite a few deaf guys.
Supersonic flight would really only benefit certain jets such as the F-16 and F-22/F-35 which are designed with Negative static stability in mind. 
Oh, and btw; at supersonic speeds, you wouldn't hear the jet until it's quite a bit past you. Reason being is that the Mach cone at Mach+ angles at roughly a 45 degrees. So you're looking at the plane being a few hundred meters past you at low altitude and quite a bit further at higher altitude.
The Apache armor is weaker than the A-10, but still no slouch. The cockpit glass and airframe is rated to withstand 23mm cannon fire, and easily protects against 12.7mm or .50 cal rounds to non-critical parts. And on the same subject, the Apache was designed for pilot survivability in the event of a crash. Separating pilot and aircraft damage would make it much more realistic.
Just so that everyone is aware, the ZU-23 ZSU-23-4 "Shilka" are the main AA guns that use the 23mm cannon round. Multiple Russian fighter jets also use the same round to greater effect since in a dog fighting position, they're much more likely to hit vitals such as engine rotors and the slightly weaker topside armor.
flaps give you drag so you can fly slower and they give you more life so it is good for landing and taking off
drag to slow
the primary reason is more lift so you can throttle off and do less speed when you land
hyrda: Originally Posted by pettka View Post
Take a look at Arma 3 Offical site, there is a close-up view of rocked pod. Maybe it isn't just a coincidence, maybe it is And the warhead doesn't look as Hydra to me, Hydras are usually blue.
They are only blue all over if they are inert rounds. Blue tipped Hydra's are smoke signature rounds. Live are green tipped.

WTU/1B is the all blue practice round.
M274 is the practice smoke signature round.
airdrops: altimeter on the wrist working

"To assassinate a person with gun, you have 2 seconds to do so, when in range."

"To assassinate a person with a knive, you have 1 second to do so, when you reach his back."

unconventional warriors are so unconventional that they have been known to use a bow and arrow for stealth missions; as known in Korea. It can be used to kill game for food. Specialised arrow heads like explosive heads can be used. There is no muzzle flash, it is deadly quite; it is perfect for night ops and stealth ops. Its light penetration effects are good for penetrating very light material; explosive heads are used for harder material like heavy wood.
winter: controlled and swift descent and acsent is learnt
demolitions: test explosive types, amount and ability on material similar to your objective. So when you take it you know exactly the amount to use. For example, two satchels for a radiotower and one for a light skinned vehicle.
UW - unconventional warfare; all the items you need but not one ounce of anything else, no one carries identification in UW ops
In the book "The Teams" a SEAL team commander describes that he purchased an assortment of cross-bows for his team to use in Vietnam but he was prohibited from using them because the Geneva Convention made a provision stating that those weapons are "too quiet" to use in combat, its almost as if it has been set up to provide rules similar to hunting season. Give the hunted a chance.
to organise, train and equip guerrilla forces and remain there for aslong as the enemy does - to control and complete guerrilla attacks is apart of UW
friendly guerrillas usually guard your air drop and give a signal to say it is all clear to air drop there
the drop zone should be in an isolated area with no likely or known enemy observation points; hence why it is also done at night
NOW TIME IS ESSENTIAL: caponies should be collapsed, parachute packs - the local guerrillas may do this for you, delegate - buried and the team reassembled
light winds or heavy winds can cause your formation to scatter hence you must have an RV point
all equipment is gathered together and checked - hence why it must be packed correctly and easily removed and put back in
to prevent tracking and being spotted - stick to rocky ground, stream beds and the like, places where no one would venture
if you are going to RETURN to an area, when you go through it make sure you do not leave any tracks or signs... the area must also be impassable or very hard to go through for the enemy; uses like explosives and natural blockages may be good to use if you are being tracked down and in hot pursuit

Move with extra caution - yellow state - if there is a chance to encounter villagers, wildlife or the enemy: anything that can alert the enemy or derail completing the objective
villagers in tough terrain pay more attention to their footing etc than surroundings than common trees and rocks

Lie up points - no trouble to find but well apart from known trails, this point is where you can drop excess weight not needed in a mission like a backpack or similar. Something not needed for the completion of the objective will be dropped and picked up when it has been completed.



Have a schedule as well as a plan. The schedule should include what you want to do on certain days with plans A and B - back-up plans and schedules.




Use local know how to the greatest possible disadvantage to the enemy forces.




Zones of control - small squads controlling seperate zones and taking up as much ground as they can.
area-of-denial threats, such as marking minefield boundaries, and marking and assessing range and effectiveness of indirect fire, such as ship-to-shore bombardment, etc.
Utilising smoke and concealment as well as assessing the effectiveness of the concealment
feint and decoy tactics
Assessing and remediating morale issues, i.e. commisar style / psychological warfare


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acoustic_shock - talk of this
flood lighting?

Navigation and Intel
• GPS and/or euro/jap/russ equivalents
• Map and map marking / sharing system
• Satellite imagery
• UAV imagery
• HuntIR imagery
• Radar / heat / metallurgic imagery
• AWAC and deep scan radar imaging
• Bionic ear sniper detection and countermeasures
• incoming mortar accoustic trajectory warning systems
• Radios and headsets
• Radio monitoring / radio and information warfare / jamming / electronic warfare / propaganda
• Surveillance photography - mission is to photograph assets and extract - photos count as assets for mission success.

Satellites
• Surveillance
• Communication
• counter-communication / espionage
• GPS, GLONASS, Galileo


Penetration:
• speed of projectile
• mass of projectile
• material of projectile
• cross section profile of projectile
• fragmentation/splash damage
• Explosives
• pyrophoric, incendiary, EMP, concussion, fragmentary, flak, spall, phosphorous, chemical warfare
• Spall
• Fragment
• Incendiary
• Inertial shock
• Reactive armour
• point defence systems
• TUSK / metal grating / sandbagging
• Multiple damage sections
• Engine
• Drive train
• Hydraulics
• Electronics / Electrics
• Periscopes
• Crew hatch / door jamming
• Wheels
• tyres as a sub category - including run-flat and puncture proof
• Tracks
• Underside
• Top
• Front
• Rear
• Left Side
• Right Side
• Turret(s)
• Mass attribute

Key contents include 	

    Comprehensive details of all categories of potential unexploded ordnance
    Identification, including ammunition markings guides
    EOD-related equipment, including communication, detection, disposal, training and personal protective equipment
    Associated services, including clearance, consultancy and training agencies
    Data summary

Different sections provide in-depth detail covering 	

    Analysis
    Background Information
    Contact Details
    Data Summary
    Equipment - Communications Equipment
    Equipment - Containment And Damage Prevention
    Equipment - Countermeasures/Jammers
    Equipment - Detection Equipment - Explosive Detectors
    Equipment - Detection Equipment - Metal Detectors (Fixed)
    Equipment - Detection Equipment - Metal Detectors (Portable)
    Equipment - Detection Equipment - Other Detectors
    Equipment - Detection Equipment - Vehicle Mounted Detectors
    Equipment - Eod Tools And Equipment
    Equipment - Eod Weapons
    Equipment - Explosives, Pyrotechnics And Demolition Accessories
    Equipment - Imaging And Monitoring
    Equipment - Personal Protective Equipment (Ppe)
    Equipment - Training Aids/Simulators
    Equipment - Vehicles: Remote Control
    Equipment - Vehicles: Specialist And Protected
    Glossary
    Identification - Colour Codes
    Identification - Explosives
    Identification - Markings
    Services - Agents For Equipment
    Services - Clearance
    Services - Consultancy
    Services - Humanitarian
    Services - Information
    Services - Medical
    Services - Training
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Bombs
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Booby Traps
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Chemical Weapons
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Demolition Charges
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Fuzes
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Grenades
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Mines
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Missiles
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Mortar Bombs
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Projectiles
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Rockets
    Types Of Unexploded Ordnance - Submunitions


Key contents include ammunition for:

Small arms
Projected grenades
Riot control ammunition
Cannon
Tank and anti-tank guns
Naval and coastal defence guns
Mortars
Field artillery
Modular propellant charge systems
Artillery rockets
Artillery fuzes
Mortar fuzes
Rocket fuzes
Identification of small arms ammunition 

Key contents include:

Personal weapons, including all rifles, shotguns, light support weapons and pistols
Crew-served weapons, including machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, cannons, anti-tank weapons and mortars
Ammunition, including small arms calibres, cannon, projected grenades and mortar bombs
Sighting equipment, including night-vision devices and the latest laser-aiming technology
National inventories, a thorough assessment of each army's arsenal of infantry weapons 

Global Conflict:
• Capability Layer - is concerned about:
• nations (political entities)
• factions within countries
• territories
• politics and allegiances
• resources
• military and civil defence sizes
• fiscal resources
• accessability to requipment (russian only, eg)
• drivers e.g. natural, such as oil, water, food
• political, such as territory, border disputes
• ideological, communism vs capitalism, racial, religious








SF teams are taught to change a tyre within 2 minutes or less, some SF teams are as quick as Formula One pit stop workers at changing tyres.

wound ballistics 2:
It was found that sometimes the new 5.56 round created a larger wound than the 7.62x51 when the 5.56 round struck with enough velocity that the bullet broke and fragmented when it destabilized. The problem was the bullet couldn't be counted on to always fragment

The 5.56 with expanding bullets are very devastating on jackrabbits and will blow a good sized hole, about fist sized to double fist sized, on exit. However, the terminal effects aren't enough to "shred" them. Can't tell you about cottontails, which are much smaller than jackrabbits, as we shot them for the pot and used 22 rimfires or shotguns. (Keep in mind my definition of "shredded". I've seen jacks torn to pieces when struck amidships by a 22-250.)

As far as FMJs go, I will not use them to hunt jackrabbits anymore, whether it's from the 5.56, 30-06 or 308. They tend to just poke a hole through a jack and don't put them down. I've shot a few jacks with FMJs and watched a small puff of fur pop from their chests and have had them take off. They don't run full speed, mind you,they hop off like someone kicked'em hard in the belly, but I kept having to chase them down and shoot them a couple more times. Strangely, I didn't have that trouble when shooting them with a 22 long rifle.

My dad & brother have cleanly taken deer, using the proper bullet in their 223s, shooting them over a feeder in Texas. So much for the 5.56 only being good for rabbits!

The difference in RPM between the 1:14 and 1:12 twist isn't enough to make a difference in the stability of a bullet travelling through the denser medium of a body.

It's been said a thousand times, but it bears repeating- If the US military were allowed to use the best of our bullet technology in battle, there would be no more question about the terminal effectiveness of either the 5.56 or the 7.62x51 


Some bullets even have 3 lobes to the yaw cycle...Now, if you look carefully at the drawings, for the first lobe of the yaw cycle, the projectile yaws to near 90 degrees, but does NOT flip over to 180 degrees. Once the bullet fully yaws past 90 degrees in tissue, it does NOT generally return to point forward travel.

Once a tail-heavy bullet starts to yaw (the heavy ass end wants to trade ends and go base-forward once it's hit something semi-solid) if it's spinning fast enough to come apart it will. If it's solidly built or has a thick, solid jacket (like Russian or 30 cal bullets) the damn thing just starts going end-over-end -- it won't spin itself apart and disintegrate.

US 30 call and 7.62 ball are solidly-built, thick-jacket bullets without air spaces. They will tend to deform but stay together. 

The vast majority of U.S. .30 caliber service ammunition has one yaw cycle in tissue and no fragmentation. We have previously tested a variety of historically significant .30 cal U.S. service rifle FMJ ammunition, including: original pre-WWI .30-06 loading (1912 manufacture date), pre-WWII .30-06 M1 ball, WWII .30-06 M2 ball from 1942, .30-06 M72 Match, the original 7.62 x 51 mm M59 FMJ load which preceeded the current 7.62 x 51 mm M80 ball load, and 7.62 x 51 mm M118 SB (Match). All these FMJ bullets travel point forward for 6" or so, causing minimal tissue damage. The bullet would then yaw, turning 180 degrees and continuing base forward without further yaw. In uncomplicated extremity wounds, the bullet will frequently exit before yawing, causing little tissue disruption and small punctate entrance and exit wounds. If the bullet yaws while still traveling in tissue, in the thick torso for example, the permanent and temporary cavity are increased while the bullet travels sideways, resulting in a greater amount of crushed tissue and extensive damage to inelastic tissue. Exit wounds may be punctate, oblong, or stellate depending on the bullet yaw angle on exit.

As mentioned before, the JSWB-IPT recently discovered that Lake City has manufactured TWO distinct types of M80 FMJ over the last several decades. The version tested by Dr. Fackler at LAIR uses a thick copper jacket that does not fragment and acts like the older .30 caliber projectiles discussed above; the other previously untested version uses a steel jacket that fragments at velocities above approximately 2800 f/s. Yaw and fragmentation occurs at about the same penetration depth as with copper jacket M80 and is thus deeper than ideal (ie. NL too deep). When the velocity drops to below 2800 f/s (by approx 100 m from 22" barrel M14), M80 steel jacketed bullets no longer fragment and instead act like the non-fragmenting copper jacketed M80 FMJ. Note that LC does NOT distinctly label the different M80 FMJ projectiles and the only way to tell them apart is to use a magnet.

As noted in previous posts, both the 7.62 x 51 mm M852 and M118LR use SMK (168 gr & 175 gr) OTM bullets which may fragment during yaw, although their terminal performance is extremely inconsistent, as discussed by both Fackler and Haag. If fragmentation does not occur, they act like the FMJ loads described above. When the SMK bullets do fragment, the bullet typically travels approximately 5" point forward before beginning to deform, yaw, flatten, and fragment. Approximately 63% of the bullet's weight is lost to the multiple fragments which spread radially outward from the primary bullet path. The multiply perforated tissue is unable to resist the stretch induced by temporary cavitation and extensive tissue destruction occurs. Uncomplicated extremity and torso wounds would likely exhibit a small punctate entrance wound. If the bullet exits before deforming or yawing, minimal tissue disruption will occur and a small punctate exit wound will be present. After the bullet yaws, deforms, and fragments, tissue destruction is greatly increased; torso wounds are often fatal and exit wounds may exhibit large tissue defects.


Flinching = anticipating the recoil. But not every movement is a flinc, learn the difference between a "flinch"? and a "reaction". You may flinc AFTER the trigger pull; natural instinct? is to protect the eye. the body has autonomic responses, loops in the nervous system that respond before the brain knows it, the looped endings cause the muscles in strategic areas to contract. It's pretty much a reflex of the body. go stick your hand on something hot, before you yourself even know its? hot, your body will make you remove you hand from the source. theres a difference between recoil and flinching... flinching is bad... load a dummy round randomly into a mag, and see what happens when you pull the trigger and nothing happens... if you jerk the gun, thats a flinch, and its bad for accuracy because you usually do it before? you actually pull the trigger.
Flinching will cause you to be a bad shot because you are moving your body which will move the gun. A flinch is? what occours before the shot, and it's what shooters do not want.

subsonic: Because subsonic rounds do not have enough energy to cycle the action properly. I actually have the gas piston system turned off in this video, which prevents the bolt from cycling. Most people do this to eliminate the additional noise and make it as silent as possible. Of? course the metal foot on my Accu-shot mono-pod hitting the metal table doesn't exactly help my efforts in being "stealthy" on this video! Subsonic rounds are not designed to cycle the bolt on a semi-auto firearm, although some have made specialty rounds that will cycle a .223
long kill: Carlos Hathcock used an M2HB HMG with a scope attached that he jerry rigged onto it. Furlong had an was u sing a specially designed weapon and a much more powerful scope.

MK211: The Raufoss Mk211 projectile will just go through a flesh target without igniting - acting like FMJ. It needs to hit a hard surface to ignite, otherwise it? will just stay in one piece. Naturally being hit by a .50 caliber projectile does damage, but people have survived it (I knew a guy who was hit by Russian AA in a helo in Vietnam - it did a number on his leg).

Even if it ignited (maybe due the use of a? SAPI plate?) the word "obliterate" is a bit strong. It is capable of penetrating over 3 inches of solid steel no? matter the range of the bullets impact because of the RDX explosive mixture? which propells the tungston 7.62 dart inside the bullet head at over 4000 Feet Per Second on Impact. It was designed for Anti-aircraft/ Anti-material purposes. It would obliterate a human.


Sniper Battery/volley/ambush: Multiple snipers engaging at the same time on a target. Normally done through a command fire. Sniper teams express they are ready by assigning each team a number and then going over the radio to say '1, up' '2, ready' for each team. The commander of the command fire then gives a standby and fire call. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sRKkAFbZnKI
HTI - Hard Target Interdiction


The U.S. Army Wound Ballistic Research Laboratory conducted terminal performance testing using 5.56 mm 55 gr M193 FMJ ammunition fired in 20” barrels of 1/14, 1/12, 1/9, and 1/7 twist rates. No difference in terminal performance was noted between shots made with the different twists. Similar testing was conducted with 5.56 mm 62 gr M855 FMJ ammunition fired in 1/9 and 1/7 twist barrels. Again, no difference in terminal performance was noted. There are some projectiles where the terminal performance can be effected by twist rate, but these are not generally in military use. Also, if the bullet is not adequately stabilized in flight, then alterations in the wound profile will be evident.

As Sinister notes above, twist rate can definitely effect external ballistics. For example, in testing ammunition at the CHP Academy in the mid 1990’s, a number of lightweight, thin-jacketed, relatively high velocity .223 varmint loads were observed to disintegrate in mid-air a few yards from the muzzle when fired from fast 1/7 twist weapons, but not in slower twists; the Federal 40 gr Blitz loading was particularly problematic in this regard. Sinister hit the nail on the head in discussing this issue in his post above.

Angle-of-Attack (AOA) variations between different projectiles, even within the same lot of ammo, as well as Fleet Yaw variations between different rifles, were recently elucidated by the JSWB-IPT. These yaw issues were most noticeable at close ranges (usually under 25 m) and were more prevalent with certain calibers and bullet styles.

Projectile impact angle-of-Attack (AOA) variability is caused by bullet to bullet variations at impact and can substantially alter wound severity; this factor is more prevalent with certain calibers and projectile types. Testing demonstrated that 5.56 mm is highly susceptible to AOA variations, particularly when using FMJ projectiles such as M193 & M855. For example, with 5.56 mm FMJ, at higher AOA’s, for example 2-3 degrees, bullets had a shorter neck length (NL) and upset rapidly, thus providing adequate terminal effects; at low AOA, like 0-1 degree, the projectiles penetrated deeper than ideal prior to initial upset (ie. long NL) with significantly reduced terminal effects. Note that other calibers were less susceptible to AOA variations than 5.56 mm, OTM’s tend to have less AOA issues than FMJ, while PT and JSP’s tend to not have major AOA induced terminal performance changes.

Fleet Yaw is the terminal performance AOA variation caused by inherent variability in each rifle; Fleet Yaw is caused by weapon to weapon variations separate from projectile induced AOA issues.

What this means is that two shooters firing the same lot of M855 from their M4’s with identical shot placement can have dramatically different terminal performance results: one shooter states that his M855 is working great and is effective at dropping bad guys, while the other complains his opponents are not being incapacitated because M855 is zipping right through the targets without upsetting. Both shooters are telling the truth… Restricting M855 for what is was designed for--use in the SAW and simply adopting new 5.56 mm barrier blind combat loads that are optimized for carbines with shorter barrels, offer consistent early upset, along with adequate penetration, and minimal AOA/Fleet yaw issues may be the critical answer to many deficiencies noted with currently issued U.S. military 5.56 mm ammunition.




medic: compresses stop bleeding more effectively











It doesn't matter about calibre, one size fits all.

CQB: 'Name' then moving 'direction' - Ryan moving left.
dynamic hammer - Most likely it has a fluid inside that reciprocates. They're also angled so you don't have to be standing in front of the door to use it. 

SF Patrol: 4-5 man patrol, worry about other people not only yourself that's the whole point of it. Specialising in a much more acute manner, with various disciplines you are going to need in the theatre and area you will employ.
It's shining what you have, taking the rough edges off it and being able to employ it at the right time. You're out in the middle of nowhere and in contact - you make sure your mates are alright.
You must be able to pick where the enemy is going to be, where the any has been, where the enemy is likely to go, and to pick the enemy before they pick you.


Jungle warfare relies heavily on trackers, training locals to track will help you gain a lot of information.
Contouring - keeping off the tracks.
If a chopper slows down then it is easier for radar to detect it so choppers normally hover low and go slowly but do not stop as operators jump out. That's why jumping into water is a good option.
Have pre-arranged meeting points at pre-arranged times.

The terrain is the same for you and your enemy, the one who makes the best of that terrain is the one who survives.
There is always a live-firing exercise before an operation, if you do not have one this is called going 'cold'.
Operational Level Of Capability (OLOC) - bags at the ready, ready to roll within hours and training to high standards. This normally happens with a 24 hour period in advance but sometimes because it must be top secret and they do not want to give people time to leak it then it might be the matter of an hour.
The mission has to be completed, even if you are by yourself. Acheive the goal that was asked of you.

Important phases:
1) Doing the task
2) Getting out

crew assist of reloading the carl gustav is called double loading, if you reload with a buddy it is faster.


liquid propane tanks set on fire when impacted with a projectile

Shock and Awe!

glass does block Mid-infrared pretty effectively.



I know someone a while back asked what this little radio looking thingie this guy has on his chest is. Anyways, its the remote control for the K9's E-collar. 

I think it's rather electric collar than anykind of dog radio.
It's used to "correct" your dogs behavior in training etc.

More information can be seen on their page: HERE

If the link dosen't work, here's the basic information:



The M67 frag grenade is pretty beefy, with a CompB charge of 180g.


Quote:
Element 300M

(Low to medium power)
The Element 300M has all the basic components needed for successful behavior management of your dog. Designed for mild mannered dogs that do not require a high level of stimulation.

Features

* Precise stimulation level (0-100)
* Reduced receiver/collar designed for smaller dogs
* 1/2 mile range
* 'Nick', 'Constant' and non-stimulating pager
* Rechargeable, user-replaceable Ni-MH batteries
* Fully waterproof collar/receiver and transmitter
* LED battery life indicator


I have same e-collar. It's a shock collar. In training there has to be some sort of negative response to negative behavior. Weather verbal, jerk on dead collar (fixed one, no adjustment like a belt), jerk on choke collar (looped back through so jerk tightens it), pinch collar (like choke but with prongs that pinch skin like pinching a person), or electric shock collar (remotely activated). All but e collar require you to physically be attached to dog to give correction (Aka that negative response to negative behavior). Most dogs will learn that the collars only work when on a lead (leash). So once off lead, they will mis behave. And sometimes the dog will tough out a good jerk and not respond.
The e collar gives you that extended reach. And the can get zapped no matter where they are. And its much more powerful and to the point unlike a collar. Now like above they will know when e collar is on and off. And will act different accordingly. But if you leave it on, you always have that upper hand.

I use one as my dog is hard headed and will kinda argue with a choke or pinch and wanna show off. But I've dropped her to ground with e collar. And she knows it. When it's on, I ne'er have a problem. And they have a vibrate mode too instead of always shock. So if they are getting antsy or curious hit vibrate and you have their attention. If not, zap.

Very good tool. Best in my k9 gear. Now your dog has to be kinda high drive and stubborn. My house dog, one zap and she's hiding in closet for hours. Even putting it on her, she will not move. Will not!!







essal wrote:
What the fuck is that? Quad NVGs? :roll:


GPNVG (Ground Panoramic Night Vision Goggle). It is the ground use varient of the AN/AVS-10 (PNVG).








Advanced techniques are the basics mastered.

Excellence is an art won by training and habit. We are what we repeatedly do. -- Aristotle




pilot:Past a certain speed the tail rotor does not have enough power to yaw the AC. [2:53:46 PM | Edited 2:54:21 PM] dumtejp: Reason I asked was mainly for stuff like manually programming steerpoint coordinates for precision-bombing. Pretty much the only reason to do cold starts (during really short flights, where mid-air programming is a bit out of question).
LB: Well, the word "overpowers" is a little bit arguable. There is no momentary "click", when rudder suddenly stops working - it is rather a smooth curve of decreasing maximum achievable yaw deflection. Between the critical angles (plus-minus 15 degrees yaw) it is roughly ~(1/v^2) - so, actually, a noticeable amount of control should be maintained even at top speeds.
Take the A-10 for instance. "The A-10 is exceptionally tough. Its strong airframe can survive direct hits from armor-piercing and high-explosive projectiles up to 25 mm." "The cockpit and parts of the flight-control system are protected by 1,200 lb (540 kg) of titanium armor, referred to as a "bathtub"'. "The armor has been tested to withstand strikes from 25 mm cannon fire and some strikes from 57 mm rounds. It is made up of titanium plates with thicknesses from 0.5 to 1.5 inches (13 to 38 mm) determined by a study of likely trajectories and deflection angles. To protect the pilot from the fragmentation likely to be created from impact of a shell, any interior surface of the tub that is directly exposed to the pilot is covered by a multi-layer nylon spall shield."
src= http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairchild_Republic_A-10_Thunderbolt_II#Durability
Extra reading= http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JCA/is_11_12/ai_n6100282/

In the A-10 instance, turns out the quoted wiki article was in error. It is in fact just the glass canopy that is resistant to "23mm" armor peircing and explosive rounds. And in correction, the armor tub itself is resistant up to 37mm armor peircing and explosive, while semi-resistant up to 57mm explosive rounds.
Cite:http://www.milavia.net/aircraft/a-10/a-10.htm

contact fuzed, meaning a lot of the explosive force is sent into the ground, as opposed to air burst where all of the explosion is sent outwards.
btw there are lots of different types of Hydra Rockets. The ones you talk about are the the M247 rockets, which have a blue warhead. But there are indeed many different types: M156 Phosphorus warheads, M255: Flechette warhead, M261: High-explosive MPSM etc
so they dont all look just blue.








on the SF vids when they training doing CQB whats the coiled wire that goes from their body to pistolthat for tension/pull and push technique?

low ready, raise weapon while moving left or right (no matter if you are moving diagonally) it will cause a stutter in animation, orient towards the enemy while going forward then raise your sights and it will be smoother and quicker
About comanche - it can be easy armed like real Gunship aka apache style - comanche can attach wings and eight missiles otherwise the bay doors would be blocked, but that still gives 14 missiles

The below instructions are for the 1:25,000 scale markings (the outermost), after next update they will be for the 1:50,000 (the next markings in).

For finding a grid ref: Just place the upper right hand corner of the map tools on the place you are wanting to find. Find the number of where the left most and bottom most grid lines intersect the map tools. Note these, and then for the easting (the left to right numbers) take the easting number (for example 06) and append the number to it, either rounding any decimals or removing them. Do the same for northings, except if you are on a map that has northings reversed (pre-OA style) subtract the number from 10 first to account for the direction of increment. Balance out the size of the northing and easting, so they have the same number of digits (add 0s basically to the shorter side) and you are done.

For finding a maploc: Do the same as above but in reverse. Find the 4 digit grid ref (the first two from northing and easting), then line up the numbers on the ruler edges to the left most and bottom most grid lines in that grid. The upper right hand corner is the location of the ref.

Tank infantry phone (TIP)
TIP = like a normal phone attached to the back of a tank for example, where infantry outside the vehicle can talk to the crew inside.

"Find, fix, flank, finish" 

A hand grenade has roughly 50g of explosives, while still having a death radius (90 percent of all personal within radius is fatally wounded) ranging from 5-10 up to 20-25 meters. 

They used ceramic ammunition which shatters on impact to avoid ricochet injuries from your own fire - first developed for action aboard ships and oilrigs. Some SAS troops went into battle with catheters already inserted into a vein in their arm, then wrapped tight in tape. This would allow the support team to administer life-saving fluid immediately in the caves while still under enemy fire before dragging him out. - read this story, http://www.sasspecialairservice.com/tora-bora.html

on patrol/planning for patrol: colour codes for awareness states, ROE states etc, e.g. green for safe, relaxed but still sharp and red for alert, scanning every detail and thinking over it

VIP protection: create secondary pick-up points, the place the QRF or other teams meet-up and pick-up the VIP for transport, it must have good cover and have a good area for a killing zone so you are in the advantage. Do bomb-assessment everywhere the client stops, both before and during the client getting there.

sas in nam: they got like SLR's, converted them to full auto, sawed the barrel in half, removed most of the hand guard, added an underslung greande launcher and even some used some sort of suppresors I think

" a rifleman went to war" by herbert mcbride.

"In all our work, designating targets, making corrections in range, etc., we used degrees and minutes of angle as did the artillery. I have been acquainted with this "mil" business ever since it was introduced in the U.S. army, but, up to this present year of our Lord, 1932, I must confess that i have never been able to form the slightest idea as to the "why" of it, and if there is any real and practical advantage in its use, the same has never been explained to me or in my prescience. Every rifleman in the United States and in the British possessions is familiar with the "minute", as a measure used for changes in elevation or horizontal deflection. probably some of them do not know it is just a sixtieth part of a degree or that an angle of one minute, extended to the distance of one mile, equals 18 inches, but they all do know that a change of one minute is equal to one inch for every hundred yards of range ( the mile being 1760yds and the minute equalling 18 inches at that distance is plenty close enough for all practical purposes).
And whenever we have to make up a real army, for war, we will take in men from every walk of life; but, no matter what their normal vocation, they will have a general idea of the structure of the circle and its divisions, used by astronomers, navigators, engineers and surveyors, the world over--and really understood by the nucleus of shooting men with whom we would have to start out"

[12:18:03 PM] Ryan: If tracer was still burning when it penetrated you, what extra damage would that cause? Though minimal I was just wondering.
[7:37:33 PM] Gnrnr: Not much really.  Maybe burns along the wounds tract, but I suspect least of your troubles at the time.

"qala" means compound


holy shit just reading some facts up on the Mk.14 EBR, apparently it gets 975.4 m/s (3,200 ft/s) out of the barrel,So does an M4 with US M855 ammo at 71°C.  The M4 is only doing about 880m/s at -52°C with Us M855)  So what?

every patrol is an intelligence gathering exercise, gathering information is a much no matter what patrol. Using translators, talking to locals.
'Night Letters' are taliban letters dropped off at night to civilians threatening to kill them and basic extortion techniques.


nautical miles (1852m) because it's well suited for navigation (it corresponds to one minute of arc at the equator), feet and meters o km/h depending on what written on the map or gauges. Nautical miles are actually different from terrestrial miles used in the Imperial system (1609m)... which aren't used for aerial or sea navigation compared to the meter of nautical mile IIRC.
discharge rate and diffusion rate of smoke grenades
bitumen and/or rebarred concrete.
[9:04:12 PM] BushTucka: ii mean look at osama raid, they had stealth blackhawks that sound like they are getting further away
triangular bandage (Cravat) + tongue depressor = make-shift tourniquet
downwash: dead air or changing thinner air causing less lift. 

We left with 72 men in our platoon and came back with 19, Believe it or not, you know what killed most of us? Our own rifle. Practically every one of our dead was found with his [M16] torn down next to him where he had been trying to fix it.
- Marine Corps Rifleman, Vietnam.

"fire discipline" that limits bursts to two or three rounds at a crack.

Read more: http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,843858,00.html#ixzz1NBJNNI4g


The M16A2/M16A2E4 is full auto capable, but the US military tried to correct a discipline/training issue (software, as some people say) with a tangible solution (hardware, following the same way of thinking), so they added a disconnetor to the firing mechanisms that limits the full auto bursts to only three rounds, but it is still automatic. 
On the M16, the weapon fill fire the rounds remaining in the burst. Other trigger mechanisms will terminate the burst but the cam position will remain in place, firing a shorter burst on the next pull. Still others will reset the cam mechanism to the starting position so the next burst may fire the full number of rounds. 

AN\VAS-5 (seems modular for all drivers of Bluefor vehicles): Range (detection) Standing man 110 m; Static vehicle 1200 m http://www.tradesegur.com/pdf/vigilancia/video/vision_termica/anvas_5.pdf
"Essa" (for both T90`s gunner and commander): Tank-type target: recognition range, km over 3; Tank-type target detection range, km over 5 ; http://www.arms-expo.ru/053052051054124049054049053055.html

a knife is always carried, even in training. Because water is a hostile environment, you need tools to cut yourself out of natural and unnatural snags. 

8–15% of human population is left handed.

Gather Emergency Supplies

American Red Cross logoIf disaster strikes your community, you might not have access to food, water, or electricity for some time. By taking time now to prepare emergency water supplies, food supplies and disaster supplies kit, you can provide for your entire family.

Even though it is unlikely that an emergency would cut off your food supplies for two weeks, consider maintaining a supply that will last that long.

You may not need to go out and buy foods to prepare an emergency food supply. You can use the canned goods, dry mixes, and other staples on your cupboard shelves.

Having an ample supply of clean water is a top priority in an emergency. A normally active person needs to drink at least 2 quarts (a half gallon) of water each day. You will also need water for food preparation and hygiene. Store at least an additional half-gallon per person, per day for this.

Store at least a 3-day supply and consider storing a two-week supply of water for each member of your family. If you are unable to store this much, store as much as you can. You can reduce the amount of water your body needs by reducing activity and staying cool.

And don't forget to take your pets and service animals into account!   
 Water (1 gallon per person per day)
    Food (stock up on non-perishable items that you eat regularly)
    Medications (this includes prescription and non-prescription meds)
    Tools and Supplies (utility knife, duct tape, battery powered radio, etc.)
    Sanitation and Hygiene (household bleach, soap, towels, etc.)
    Clothing and Bedding (a change of clothes for each family member and blankets)
    Important documents (copies of your driver’s license, passport, and birth certificate to name a few)
    First Aid supplies (although you’re a goner if a zombie bites you, you can use these supplies to treat basic cuts and lacerations that you might get during a tornado or hurricane)
Assemble the following items to create kits for use at home, the office, at school and/or in a vehicle:

    Water—one gallon per person, per day (3­day supply for evacuation, 2­week supply for home)
    Food—non­perishable, easy­to­prepare items (3­day supply for evacuation, 2­week supply for home)
    Flashlight
    Battery­powered or hand­crank radio (NOAA Weather Radio, if possible)
    Extra batteries
    First aid kit
    Medications (7­day supply) and medical items
    Multi­purpose tool
    Sanitation and personal hygiene items
    Copies of personal documents (medication list and pertinent medical information, proof of address, deed/lease to home, passports, birth certificates, insurance policies)
    Cell phone with chargers
    Family and emergency contact information
    Extra cash
    Emergency blanket
    Map(s) of the area

Consider the needs of all family members and add supplies to your kit. Suggested items to help meet additional needs are:

    Medical supplies (hearing aids with extra batteries, glasses, contact lenses, syringes, cane)
    Baby supplies (bottles, formula, baby food, diapers)
    Games and activities for children
    Pet supplies (collar, leash, ID, food, carrier, bowl)
    Two­way radios
    Extra set of car keys and house keys
    Manual can opener

Additional supplies to keep at home or in your kit based on the types of disasters common to your area:

    Whistle
    N95 or surgical masks
    Matches
    Rain gear
    Towels
    Work gloves
    Tools/supplies for securing your home
    Extra clothing, hat and sturdy shoes
    Plastic sheeting
    Duct tape
    Scissors
    Household liquid bleach
    Entertainment items
    Blankets or sleeping bags
Pack the items in easy-to-carry containers, label the containers clearly and store them where they would be easily accessible. Duffle bags, backpacks, and covered trash receptacles are good candidates for containers. In a disaster situation, you may need access to your disaster supplies kit quickly - whether you are sheltering at home or evacuating. Following a disaster, having the right supplies can help your household endure home confinement or evacuation.

Make sure the needs of everyone who would use the kit are covered, including infants, seniors and pets. It's good to involve whoever is going to use the kit, including children, in assembling it.
Benefits of Involving Children

    Involving children is the first step in helping them know what to do in an emergency.
    Children can help. Ask them to think of items that they would like to include in a disaster supplies kit, such as books or games or nonperishable food items, and to help the household remember to keep the kits updated. Children could make calendars and mark the dates for checking emergency supplies, rotating the emergency food and water or replacing it every six months and replacing batteries as necessary. Children can enjoy preparing plans and disaster kits for pets and other animals.

Disaster Supplies Kit Checklist for Pets

    Food and water for at least three days for each pet, food and water bowls and a manual can opener
    Depending on the pet, litter and litter box or newspapers, paper towels, plastic trash bags, grooming items, and household bleach
    Medications and medical records stored in a waterproof container, a first aid kit and a pet first aid book
    Sturdy leashes, harnesses and carriers to transport pets safely and to ensure that your pets cannot escape. A carrier should be large enough for the animal to stand comfortably, turn around, and lie down. Your pet may have to stay in the carrier for hours. Be sure to have a secure cage with no loose objects inside it to accommodate smaller pets. These may require blankets or towels for bedding and warmth and other special items
    Pet toys and the pet's bed, if you can easily take it, to reduce stress
    Current photos and descriptions of your pets to help others identify them in case you and your pets become separated, and to prove that they are yours
    Information on feeding schedules, medical conditions, behavior problems and the name and telephone number of your veterinarian in case you have to board your pets or place them in foster care.

Additional Supplies for Sheltering-in-Place

In the unlikely event that chemical or radiological hazards cause officials to advise people in a specific area to "shelter-in-place" in a sealed room, households should have in the room they have selected for this purpose:

    A roll of duct tape and scissors
    Plastic sheeting pre-cut to fit shelter-in-place room openings

Ten square feet of floor space per person will provide sufficient air to prevent carbon dioxide buildup for up to five hours. Local officials are unlikely to recommend the public shelter in a sealed room for more than two-three hours because the effectiveness of such sheltering diminishes with time as the contaminated outside air gradually seeps into the shelter.








A bullet may "over expand".

If the bullet remains intact then:

    its increased surface area increases penetration resistance, and
    its sectional density (the bullet's weight distributed over the surface area presented to the medium being penetrated) decreases, which decreases its penetration potential


If the bullet fragments then:

    it loses both mass and momentum, which decreases penetration potential, and
    its sectional density may also decrease


Sectional density - heavier bullets of the same caliber possess greater sectional density because the greater mass (weight) is distributed within the same surface area. 


Adrenaline (or epinephrine) can still be used to prevent heart failure though, and together with electro-shocks it can be use to restart a heart. But yeah, can't restart a heart on its own.

advanced stuff a corpsman needs to take care of punctured lungs and other breathing obstructions, splints, tourniquets, and stuff like that

most surgeons prefer to add epinephrine to the lidocaine in order to help stop any bleeding
epinephrine (to open the airways and get the heart going again), atropine (also to help get the heart started again), and if necessary, amiodarone or lidocaine (to stop improper electrical activity in the heart).
even epi injected in the heart does not have a 100% chance of restarting it
there is a big ass chance they fuck up and cause some serious problems if the heart is ever restarted

or wake someone from unconcsiousness ..
it treats beestings
epi is used in sudden cardiac arrest, combined with CPR and possibly vassopressin to restart an arrested heart
only to be used for anaphylactic shock and cardiac arrest

PVS-7 (NVGoggles): Range: 150 m (Starlight), 300 m (Moonlight) http://www.militaryinfrared.com/AN_PVS_&_Night_Vision_Goggles.html
PVS-4 (NVG on FN FAL): Range of Detection 600m (Starlight) Range of Recognition 400m (Starlight) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AN/PVS-4
Goshawk ( TWS on Taki AK-74 ) : Range of Detection (man) 500+ m ; Range of Recognition - up to 400 m http://www.cyclone-jsc.ru/goshawk.html
NSPUM (NVG sight on taki AK and SVD) : Range of identification of the growth figures of soldiers : 400 m http://zonawar.ru/shkolaspetsnaza/optika_1pn58.html
AN/PAS-13C(V)1 (Light) (TWS on SCAR) : Recognition range (70%Pr – moving man) 680m http://www.baesystems.com/BAEProd/groups/public/documents/bae_publication/bae_pdf_eis_tws.pdf
AN/PAS-13C(V)2 (Medium) (TWS on M110) : Recognition range (70%Pr – moving man) 1,100m ( same link )
AN/PAS-13C(V)3 (Heavy) (seems TWS on AS50) : Recognition range (70%Pr – moving man) 2,200m ( same link )
Metis-M TWS : Range of Detection - up to 3.2 km; Range of Recognition - 1.6 km http://www.arms-expo.ru/049056051055124049057051057.html





needle decompress, mention chest tube, collapsed lung: Because the chest is a cavity. When you put the needle in above the 3rd rib you're avoinding all of the blood vessels that are at the bottom of each rib. when the needle is inside the? chest there is nothing in there but air.



If this has been posted before I apologize, I did some searching and didn't come up with anything.

A few years ago while on a quest to get more training in Iraq on my BRAND NEW M24 (I was a SDM, did the 2 week LRM course...long story), I visited our local friendly ODA compound for some knowledge.

I was shown the light with the Rule of 9's and I was wondering if anybody else has had great success with this or any other "versions" of it that worked out better.

Basically...
Take the wind speed in mph and multiply it by the base number of the range in meters.

Example - 3 mph @ 500 M = 15

Now each 1/4'd mil is 9, so 1 mil is 36 (9,18,27,36,45,54,etc). Knowing this we take the 15 and figure that it is close to 18 ( 1/2 Mil ). So we say our holdover is going to be light 1/2 hold.

Here's a simple one I built using this formula:

Code:

                  (range in yards/100) * wind (mph)
wind hold(mils) = ----------------------------------
                            constant



The constants I use are:

Code:

Range(yards) Constant
<= 500         45
600            43
700            41
800            39
900            38
1000           37



However, that's a rough approximation for my .308 load. If you want one more accurate, use a ballistic program set up for your load and a 1 mph full-value crosswind, and work the formula backwards:

Code:

             (range in yards/100) * wind (mph)
constant = ----------------------------------
                    wind hold(mils)














I actually saw this episode when it aired.

I know we beat the topic of the predicted outcome deader than a zombie horse ... but there was one part of the show (that for some dumb reason) sticks out in my mind.

It was the the night pistol shoot, where the two guys are moving and engaging targets with night vision and pistols.

The green beret didn't do so well, IIRC, but that's not what I'm interested in.

It struck me as relatively interesting that the Spetsnaz guy was aiming for, and shooting at an area just around the (target's right side) collar bone of each target.

Is there something magical about this target zone? IIRC, somebody mentioned that there was a big blood vessel there, and it looks like an area that's not covered by your average body armor. I'm sure a hit there would likely at the very least take somebody out of the fight (can't shoot with that arm?).

Anyone wanna chime in?

Answer: 2 things come to mind for that location incapacitates the arm by possible fracture of the clavicle and or injury to the brachial plexus, may take out one lung with a pneumo thorax. subclavian artery and vein big mommas and hard to get to you might well bleed out before help comes. I would think center mass hit in the mediastinum( center mass) the blood vessels are bigger and it is a bigger target.




piloting:
hold s and hold up mouse to go at the same altitude
lb landing is good at 40kmph




FIRST AID:
Shock
Trauma causes shock most of the time, shock to muscles and soft tissue causes the brain to pump more blood into that area to begin to heal it.
If it thinks it is getting attacked it will start to shut off parts of the body like limbs and extremities using up blood that is needed and use that blood.
Shock must be stopped before it does this.

Think of a water bottle, all the water in the bottle - tip it on it's side and the water spreads out evenly. This is what you do, via elevating a leg.


cqb shooting:
The thing I don't like about it is that the sights sit high above the muzzle. Same problem with using the M4. In order to shoot the suspect between the eyes at close distance you would have to aim for his hair line. But I'm sure it is a nice weapon.






As for the idea of removing the firing pin, that would be even more unrealistic. In order to remove the firing pin, you'd already need to remove the bolt assembly. Then you'd need to disassemble the bolt group in order to free the firing pin. Much easier just to remove the bolt group. With something as small and simple as a battle rifle, that's not so difficult. Crack open the receiver and slide out the bolt group, no problem. But with most CSW systems, opening them up is not so simple. If you absolutely MUST disable the weapon, and you can't beat it down with a sledge or run it over with a tracked vehicle, thermites are the next best option. That's what they were actually designed for.


Quote:
Originally Posted by NodUnit View Post
If it were a stealth helicopter wouldn't it make sense to have NOTAR?
It depends on what you how much you want to "stealth". If you are not bothered about the IR signature then it's not a problem. The significant improvement of NOTAR is the noise reduction which makes its use in cities and urban areas cost effective. The audible detection range is lower but the turbine whine is more obvious over the traditional "whop-whop" of the main rotor blades.

NOTAR has a flaw when it comes to traditional stealth: the IR signature is huge in comparison. You can't diffuse the exhaust in the main rotor like most IR suppression kits do. And cooling the exhaust means increasing the pressure which requires yet another pressure stage in the engine and the increased 'cost' in weight and fuel etc which negates the advantage gained and so on.

As i said earlier it is however a lot quieter than conventional systems. But (if I remember correctly - i may be wrong) the US Army conducted trials with a MD520NOTAR and found that it gave not real performance benefits for their applications. From memory they concluded that the same/similar reduction in audible detection range could be achieved with a redesigned conventional tail rotor. Specifically the materials used and the profiling. I could really geek out and go further if you like but thats going even further off topic than we already are

Fenstroms make sense in the "Stealth" application since they allow you to obscure/obstruct/control the reflections from the straight edges of the tail rotors since they are enclosed. But modern composite and radar absorbent materials (RAM) mean its probably more cost effective (fenstroms are heavy = needing to carry more fuel + reduces performance) to use a conventional system made of radar transparent or absorbent materials.

[11:06:43 AM] Inkompetent: Heat-reflecting paint, engine nozzle dispersers, extra rotor blades, and some stuff like that aren't exactly new inventions.
[11:10:17 AM] Inkompetent: Stalling as in turbines going out, or too low rotor RPM?
[11:10:44 AM] Inkompetent: Almost sounds like they didn't use a dust filter on the engine intakes?

external ballistics:
Gyroscopic stability doesn't guarantee a stable flight, you have to consider the dynamic stability as well.

[4:49:27 PM] Griff: 80grainers need super fast twist rates and dont even fit in most mags, a 110 is nuts
[4:51:04 PM] Griff: yeah ok tungsten is denser than lead, hence its increased weight
[4:51:47 PM] Sandiford: tungsten isn't radioactive 
[4:52:01 PM] Militant: lol ok
[4:52:30 PM] Griff: it technically is (but considered stable), but not in the way we think of uranium as radioactive :)


1mil=10cm at 100m so at 760 1mil would be 76cm
1in=2.54cm so take 38.3inx2.54=97.282cm
Now divide 97.282/76=1.28mils
It's the long way to do it but it works. You could also look at a ballistic chart I think the one on there gives you a reference in mils for every mph of wind. So say that it says .2mils of drift for every mph of wind at 760 if the wind was 5mph from 3 or 9 o'clock then it would be as easy as multiplying the two for 1 mil of drift. If it's coming from 10-11 or 1-2 multiply the wind by .65 to use as your drift. Let us know if that helps out.



Marksmanship has two aspects to it:

Accuracy, what your equipment is capable of, this is primarily all those bug hole groups you see shot at 100 yards. Yes you need to be able to drive the firearm to achieve them but you are testing the system.

Consistency, what you are capable of, this is discipline specific. This is open ended and very broad.

To evaluate an individual I would say consistency is the test. For me, like Redmanss, a first round hit at long range is the bar I strive for; because that is the discipline I practice. 



Wind Angle
Angle of the wind direction. A wind blowing downrange has an angle of zero, a wind blowing to the shooter's right has an angle of 90, a headwind, an angle of 180 and a wind blowing to the shooter's left has an angle of 270 degrees. 

Windage
The distance to the right or left of the line of sight. Windage is positive to the shooters right and negative to the shooters left



Wind direction is from the perspective of you the big hand in the middle of a clock shooting at 12 o'clock. What's important is knowing, that from this perspective, wind direction has a value. For example, a cross wind of 10 mph is a full value wind. The same 10 mph wind from let's say 11 to 5 would be placed in your wind formula as a 1/2 value, or a 5 mph wind. A wind from 6 to 12, or 12 to 6 would have no value.

My advice, learn what wind looks and feels like, for example a wind raising dust and moving loose paper could be treated as an 8 to 12 mph wind and one which you'd average to 10 mph. With knowledge for wind velocity and direction you can enter it into a simple formula, like distance divided by 100, times velocity in mph, divided by 10, equals drift in MOA. The constant of 10 is not perfect but it's fast, and will get the job done for B.C.'s in the .308 and .223 range.

Shooting at 600 yards with a 10 mph cross wind at mid-range would mean 6 times 10 divided by 10 equals 6 MOA, or 36 inches of favor.

I'm not going to tell you to throw away all your charts, graphs, wind meters, but, seriously, this stuff can be figured in your head in a heartbeat, and, that's important, since wind can change in a heartbeat.



POOR MAN's WIND SPEED GUESTIMATION - get a ribbon of paper, hold it out to 90*, then drop it. when it hits the ground point to it, estimate the angle. divide that angle by 4, and you have a guestimation of wind speed at your location

WIND DIRECTION CALIBRATION / ANGLE OF PREVAILING WIND IN RELATIONSHIP TO SHOOTER

WIND VALUE:

1:00 = .5 1/2 VALUE OF 1 MPH
1:30 = .75 3/4 VALUE OF 1 MPH
3:00 = 1.0 FULL VALUE OF 1 MPH
4:30 = .75 3/4 VALUE OF 1 MPH
5:00 = .5 1/2 VALUE OF 1 MPH
6:00 = 0 0 VALUE OF 1 MPH

EXAMPLE: Using (5 MPH WIND)

12:00 = 0 (12:00 is your target while you are pointing the rifle at it...the target is always 12:00) theoritically, no drift shooting directly into the wind.
1:00 = 2.5 MPH.......5MPH wind X .5 = adjusted wind speed of 2.5 MPH
1:30 = 3.75 MPH......5MPH wind X .75 = adjusted wind speed of 3.75 MPH
3:00 = 5 MPH..........5MPH wind X 0 value = full value or 5 MPH
4:30 = 3.75 MPH......5MPH wind X .75 = adjusted wind speed of 3.75 MPH
5:00 = 2.5 MPH........5MPH wind X .5 = adjusted wind speed of 2.5 MPH
6:00 = 0 MPH (6:00 is directly behind you as you face the target) theoritically, no drift as you would be shooting with the wind.

FORMULA: WIND MPH X WIND DIRECTIONAL VALUE (decimal) = ADJUSTED WIND SPEED

it's like a boat crossing a river; if you are perpendicular to the current, you are getting the full effect of the current (full value)

row across at an angle and you'll have less effect of the current against the boat (1/2 and 3/4 value)



EXPLAIN ITS JUST A DOWN AND DIRTY CLASS, AND IS NOT SET UP FOR MAKING THEM EXPERTS. This class is set up to explain the basic things you need to know for taking a shot at an angle.
When we consider target engagements there are a lot of factors that need to be considered when taking the shot. After the classes that you have already heard you have come to realize that there are many considerations to shooting accurately. You have been taught and/or refreshed on the fundamentals, your more versed in ballistics, and have a grasp of the environmental effects. In addition to these necessities you are now going to get a brief introduction to how angles effect ballistics and your abilities to kill the enemy.
All of us here have experience at some level of shooting on level flat ranges. Many of us have engaged targets in various environments, to include the mountains. Few of us have an understanding of what effects angles have on ballistics and how the effects of gravity are different as we increase or decrease the angle to the target.

FACTORS THAT DETERMINE DISTANCE FOR ANGLE SHOOTING
1. Range Estimation
– Straight Line Distance
– Flat Ground Distance
2. Target Angle (up or down)

The ability to accurately estimate the range to the target is one of the most important considerations for engagement;
Straight line distance: is the actual distance from you to the target (i.e. laser range finder) The strait line distance to the target is the distance that will be used for your wind formula and time of flight formulas, because that’s the distance the bullet will travel
Flat ground distance: is the distance that a bullet is effected by gravity, and is the distance you will have to use for your zero or elevation adjustments.
Since we are talking only on how angles effect the flight of the projectile. The only thing that we really need to understand is how do we compensate for gravities effect. We simply need to understand the flat ground distance to the target from our firing position. That is it. Then we need to utilize that flat ground distance to determine our elevation adjustments..
To make it as simple as possible, gravities effect on a projectile is only equal to the “flat ground” distance that the bullet travels. For example: If I was to take a shot from the top of this building to the sidewalk immediately below, what elevation setting would I need? If you think back to the ballistics class you understand that as the distance to the target increases so does the bore line to the sight line. This in turn compensates for gravities effect.
If the “straight line” distance from the top of the building to the bottom was 400 yards and I used a 400 yard zero to engage would I hit the target. NO. My impact would be above my point of aim. I would actually need to use zero elevation adjustments as gravity is pulling the bullet straight down, in effect eliminating the effect of gravity all together. If the target moved farther away from the building than I would need to make incremental adjustments to compensate for the increased but still limited effect of gravity.
To simplify it even further. Staying with the football analogy, would I need to throw the football in a high arcing pass or simply drop the ball.
Since we are talking only on how angles effect the flight of the projectile. The only thing that we really need to understand is how do we compensate for gravities effect. We simply need to understand the flat ground distance to the target from our firing position. That is it. Then we need to utilize that flat ground distance to determine our elevation adjustments. To determine the flat ground distance we will discuss a few techniques and a couple of formulas.

It is important to understand that as the angle to the target increases the effect of gravity decreases
Before we get to the formulas and techniques if you only get one thing out of this class it is:________. With the exception of a laser range finder with the capability to compensate for angles all of these methods are time consuming and realistically should be used in a “range card” environment. To engage a target with straight line distance elevation will cause the bullet to impact higher as the angle increases.
Simply stated: With a 500 yard target and a 500 yard zero the bullet will impact point of aim/point of impact on a flat range. Increase the angle to the target to 28 degrees and your bullet will impact approximately 3 moa high or 15 inches. Enough to miss the target. You actually would have needed 440 yard data to achieve poa/poi
Techniques and Formulas
• Map Relation
• Cosine Formula
• Vertical MIL Reading Formula
• Pythagorean Theorem
• Protractor Formula
• These are the formulas and techniques. All of these deal with a way of determining the actual or “flat ground” distance.
Map Relation
• The most simple to use
• Determine your location and the targets location
• Plot both locations on a map
• Measure the distance between points
• This is your “flat ground” distance
COSINE FORMULA
• Straight Line Distance
• Target Angle
• Cosine Chart
• Distance X Cosine = Actual Distance
In order to determine the actual or flat ground distance utilizing the Cosine formula you need three things. The straight line distance can be determined many ways but the most effective is with a laser range finder. There are a couple of ways to determine the target angle and I will discuss them in a second. Once you determine the target angle you compare that angle to the cosine chart and determine your cosine, multiply that by your straight line distance and you will get your actual /Flat Ground Distance.
BASIC METHODS TO FIND THE ANGLE
• Clinometers / Ranger Silva Compass
• Standard Map Protractor
• Laser Range finder
Clinometers are instruments specifically made to measure angles
The Ranger Silva Compass has a built in clinometers inside of it. How to use it is simply put the flat edged base of the compass on the hand guard of the rifle while pointing at the target or target area, and read the angle where the north seeking pivot arm resets.
Standard map protractor. First in the center of the protractor install a piece of string with a weight to act as a angle reading line. Then lay the protractor on the barrel or scope with 90 degrees in the direction of the target. Aim at the target and read the angle from the string.
Once the angle is obtained refer to the angle cosine chart.

COSINE CHART:
These are the figures used by the US army marksmanship unit / US shooting team

ANGLE> 0 1-8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
COSINE> 1 .99 .98 98 .98 .97 .97 .97 .96 .96 .95 .95

ANGLE> 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
COSINE> .95 .94 .93 .93 .92 .91 .9 .89 .89 .89 .87 .86

ANGLE> 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42
COSINE> .86 .84 .84 .82 .82 .80 .80 .78 .78 .78 .75 .74

ANGLE> 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52.5 55
COSINE> .73 .72 .70 .69 .68 .67 .65 .64 .605 .605 .57

ANGLE> 57.5 60 62.5 65 67.5 70 72.5 75
COSINE> .53 .5 .46 .42 .38 .34 .30 .26

ANGLE> 77.5 80 90
COSINE> .215 .17 0

YARDS X COSINE=ACTUAL YARDAGE TO USE IN THE FIELD TO MAKE SLOPE ADJUSTMENTS

Example: 500 yards at a 25 degree angle = .9 cosine value, or.. 500 x .9 = 450 yards 

SILVA COMPASS


Example: Lets say you know the distance to the target is 500 yards straight line distance. By using the built in clinometer in the Silva compass you’ve determined that you are at a 26 degree angle to the target. Refer to the cosine chart, the cosine for a 26 degree angle is 0.89. Now you simply take the strait line distance of 500 yards and multiply it by .89 and you are left with a flat ground distance of 445 yards.

Protractor Method

Example: If you determine the straight line distance to your target is 600 yds. And get an angle from your protractor of 27 degrees. The cosine for a 27 degree angle is 0.89.
600 yds x 0.89 = 534 yds.
Note that there is not that big of a difference now notice the difference as the angle increases.
45 degree = .70 cosine.
600 yds x .70 = 420 yds

PROTRACTOR METHOD

Finding flat ground distance with a protractor should be your last resort. This technique is used in the case there is no way to get the cosine of the angle from either a cosine sheet or calculator. This method does work and is accurate only if the measurements are exact. That’s the biggest disadvantage due to its so difficult to get accurate measurements. This technique is designed to get a accurate as possible flat ground distance rather than just guessing in the case cosines are not available.
STEPS:
1. Range estimation.
2. Find the angle
3. Draw a strait line vertically such as line A
4. Place the center of the protractor on point 1 and draw a line of the angle, such as the line from point 1 past point 2
5. Mark the actual distance from point 1 to point 2
6. Now measure the distance from point 2 to point 3
7. This will give the flat ground distance for elevation settings.
http://www.exteriorballistics.com/ebexplained/article1.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rifleman%27s_rule











Speaking as the man who owns this gun. It is a .50 cal. Black-powder muzzle loader gun. If you knew anything about guns you would have known that just by all the smoke. A regular firearm using modern shells would have very little smoke. This .50 cal. used? a pre-formed pyrodex charge with a Hornady Sabots 50 Cal bullet in this video.

"integral squeeze safety feature that allows the weapon to be fired only when being held correctly."

Laser Designators (Spot) and Laser Markers (Sparkle)work on different wave lengths and are used for different functions.

Laser Designator guides a weapon.

Laser Marker guides a pilot onto the target as it is visible through NVGs. Unfortunately it also draws a line to the JTAC using it, to any NVG equipped enemy - So its a two way pointer ! Markers have a much longer range than PEQ type weapon lasers, they are very powerful to the point of hazardous to the eye. You can mark targets a few k away.

arty:
Well, for that first shot it seems silly. But if they are to fire multiple rounds I assume they don't want to lower the barrel between every shot when they *can* reload it elevated.
[12:40:58 PM] Mike Kelly: your supposed to depress to quadrant 600 or something
[12:41:11 PM] Mike Kelly: but yeah in country if you can ram it fuck it
[12:41:47 PM] CD (Nou): yea only place i can imagine it being required to lower at HA would be in the pally
[12:44:42 PM | Edited 12:44:49 PM] Inkompetent: Btw. Does the M777 have anywhere near as rapid elevation adjustment of the gun as the Paladin has?
[12:46:56 PM] Mike Kelly: dunno, never seen a pally elevate, triple 7 all depends on how fast you can crank that elevation handwheel lol
[12:49:39 PM] CD (Nou): i decided to try and add Excals to the M109A6 on initial release :| Nothing more boring than watching graphs of shell trajectorys forming
[12:49:55 PM] CD (Nou): i have no idea how im going to make the firing tables for this thing
[12:54:33 PM] CD (Nou): i figure since its guided i just need to do its max range at charge x
[12:54:40 PM] CD (Nou): which will guarantee it has the range to the target
[12:54:42 PM] CD (Nou): :P
[12:54:57 PM] CD (Nou): and i wont make tables for under 800 elevations
[12:55:02 PM] CD (Nou): since its meant to top attack
[12:58:57 PM] Inkompetent: The M777 is completely hand-cranked (other than small corrections I assume)? Thought it had been modernized like our Howitzer 77Bs. Well, then the Pally definitely beats it.
[1:00:01 PM] Inkompetent: Sounds like a fair enough solution, Nou. Although impact time will be bloody long for closer range shots where one could settle with lower charges. But can't expect the devs to make *everything* ^^
[1:06:39 PM] Mike Kelly: eh the pally might be faster to aim, but I assure you its probably more accurate, definitely fires faster, can get a lot of places the paladin cant.
[1:14:30 PM] Inkompetent: That I also agree on. All kinds of guns got their own advantage.
[1:14:40 PM] Inkompetent: The Paladin's is mobility.
[4:36:54 PM] dumtejp: And that'd be pretty cool, Nou. Closest I've come to use any decent measurement tools was a rotating laser level :P
[4:37:36 PM] CD (Nou): technically a towed artillery batter, or even for the M109 prior to the A6
[4:37:41 PM | Edited 4:37:42 PM] CD (Nou): you had an advance party
[4:37:46 PM] dumtejp: It wasn't even gyrostabilized. Sucked really. Used three spirit levels for proper configuration :(
[4:37:55 PM] CD (Nou): that goes out and surveys the gun emplacements
[4:38:02 PM] CD (Nou): for each gun in the battery
[4:38:10 PM] CD (Nou): and sets up where the aiming circle will go
[4:38:11 PM] CD (Nou): and shit like that
[4:38:27 PM] CD (Nou): not so much needed i guess with the M777 now
[6:58:15 PM] dumtejp: Nice, Nou! One question though: Do the guns aim individually on the target point, or does the battery as a whole aim, and the guns maintain dispersion in aim, as they are phyiscally positioned in that battery?
[6:58:38 PM] dumtejp: I assume it's the latter, judging from relative Paladin position and impact points in the video?
[7:01:49 PM] CD (Nou): technically those should have merged into a single point
[7:02:04 PM] CD (Nou): but their guidance system error in that case kept them oddly parallel
[7:02:24 PM] CD (Nou): with normal non-guided rounds though
[7:02:33 PM] CD (Nou): it depends on the ordered sheaf
[7:02:42 PM] dumtejp: Okay. And well, both methods make sense really. For area of effect, or focused accuracy.
[7:03:04 PM] CD (Nou): a parallel sheaf, all guns fire the same exact elevation and deflection
[7:03:17 PM] CD (Nou): and their shells land roughly in the same pattern the guns are layed out
[7:03:31 PM | Edited 7:03:37 PM] CD (Nou): converged all guns fire solutions meant to make rounds land in the same spot
[7:03:53 PM] CD (Nou): linear or special sheafs usually walk the guns in a certain direction or over an area
[7:04:00 PM] CD (Nou): to cover a larger position
[7:04:35 PM] dumtejp: I assume the artillerymen (or even FO?) can set if it is a parallel or converged fire mission?
[7:04:56 PM] CD (Nou): usually its at the FDC's discretion based on what the FO reports
[7:05:05 PM] CD (Nou): the FDC is the one who usually determines how to engage the enemy
[7:05:10 PM] CD (Nou): and the number of rounds to use
[7:05:25 PM] CD (Nou): in the US at least, the FDC can always override what the FO asks for
[7:05:53 PM] CD (Nou): like the FO might call for 10 rounds HE on infantry in the open, which would mean 10 rounds from each gun in the battery
[7:05:56 PM] CD (Nou): but thats over kill
[7:06:01 PM] CD (Nou): in a US Army battery that'd be 80 rounds
[7:06:15 PM] CD (Nou): the FDC would most likely call for 1 or 2 rounds DPICM
[7:06:19 PM] CD (Nou): on inf in open
[7:06:27 PM] dumtejp: Was just thinking if the FO got some fancy UI for calling in the fire missions, or if it'll be left to the actual gun crews to do the fancy stuff

[4:33:50 PM] CD (Nou): no like umm theodolites and things like that
[4:33:55 PM] CD (Nou): for taking accurate land measurements




switch's rock hop: moving from rock to rock, keeping in cover


NAV: ford = crossing

cqb INS tricks: fake doors, a doorframe, open the door and it's a brick wall or something similar
The numbers are for the members in the team, and "up" is to denote that your are OK. If there's a problem then you? would say your number and then whatever the problem is, like "Two, shot in the arm but OK."

T-90:T-90 has some other significant advantages over the Abrams, like logistics. An Abrams need to be refueled I think 3 times a day during mobile operations, and that's with jet fuel. The T-90 uses much less fuel, can cross more terrain, and runs on diesel like the rest of all ground vehicles (well, aside from the T-80 which the Russians hate just because it uses a gas turbine)
Gas turbines were indeed for better power, but with modern diesels that is moot (just look at the Leopard 2 to see what you can do with a modern diesel). They are also much more quiet than diesels, but on the other hand the extreme heat of the exhausts prevent infantry from trailing the tank for cover.
The two biggest downsides of gas turbines are the amount and of kind of fuel they use, and that they are much more complicated to repair. Unfortunately for gas turbines that's about the two most important things for a tank's operation.
Russia had nothing but problems with their T-80s in Chechenya. Lots and lots of mechanical problems that also took much longer time to fix than with their T-72s.

M1A2:
M256A1 = name of the gun
M829A3 = name of the APFSDS shell
M830A1 = HEAT
M1028 = Canister

NAV: 8 digit is fine for most fire missions, heck even 6 does it ok most of the time
[11:34:36 AM] CD (Nou): people giving 8 digit grids for fires
[11:34:42 AM] CD (Nou): usually are being too accurate

recce: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperspectral_imaging - used for navigating and finding out what materials objects are made of

heli pilots: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prop_wash#Spiral_slipstream http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast-roping
heli: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nap-of-the-earth
[11:43:56 AM] Inkompetent: JDAMs would be awesome. The closest we can get to old-fasioned CCRP-bombing with dumb bombs at pre-programmed coordinates.
wind vortex, where you cannot pick up enough thrust (due to terrain like cliff faces or wind speed) and the chopper bows or tips or doesn't take-off at all and just goes to ground




1xENEMY INF? call it a single contact

vehicles: if there is a barrier or hesco infront of you then use it for cover, get hull-down and engage over the top of it. Always position the vehicle so it can escape quickly without having to reverse or do a lot of movement, therefore wasting time.


CT: windows normally need a small shaped charge, hammers and other equipment doesn't always work - at least not as quickly and easily
restrain civs with flexi-cuffs/zip ties
transition to secondary: on Arma i notice when you transition, your pistol sights are more to the left of your primary aim view because of stance and the way you hold the weapon, so if you primary is at the left side of a suspect and you transition, move it inwards to the right hand side for an accurate shot 
taking out tyres: use burst or full-auto as small calibre doesn't do a lot
flashlight: turn off before entering room or reloading or it goes all over and enemy can detect you
night CT: cannot see when needing to reload as its too hard to see the bolt slid back (especially if the weapon is black), use lasers, flashbang, cs, flashlights and explosives
run around then practice for realistic results, use flashlight and IR to see the weapon shake and control it (learn from it)
the middle of the light, imagine 3 cirlces - one large, one medium and a smaller circle towards the middle about the size of a bulls eye - that is what you want in the middle of your target, the medium ring only to use when there is no hostage but only enemies
mozambique drill can also be called the "triple tap"


ambush: before firing, check left and right for enemies or possible positions you missed
convoy ambush: do a 360 of the area to check after being hit

walking uphill, want to get there fast? go diagonally, you start to move faster. Look down your sights and hold shift and it will be faster also.

comms: evesdrop on enemy comms


ID'ing HVT's:
U.S. forces used multiple methods to positively identify the body of Osama bin Laden:

Measurement of the body: Both the corpse and bin Laden were 6'4" (1.93 meters) tall; SEALs on the scene did not have a tape measure to use for measuring the corpse, so a DEVGRU operator of known height laid down next to the body and the height was approximated by comparison.
Facial recognition software: A photograph transmitted by the SEALs to CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia for facial recognition analysis yielded a 90 to 95 percent likely match.
In-person identification: One or two women from the compound, including one of bin Laden's wives, identified bin Laden's body after death.[58] A wife of bin Laden also apparently called him by name during the raid, inadvertently assisting in his identification by U.S. armed forces on the ground.
DNA testing: The Associated Press, and The New York Times reported that bin Laden's body could be identified by DNA testing, using tissue and blood samples taken from his sister who had died of brain cancer. ABC News stated, "Two samples were taken from bin Laden: one of these DNA samples was analyzed, and information was sent electronically back to Washington, D.C., from Bagram. Someone else from Afghanistan is physically bringing back a sample.
Photographic documentation: Multiple pictures (different angles and in good light) of the HVT body, plus pictures of those around him and where they were at.



pilot: vs panels



Quote:

Originally Posted by NodUnit View Post
...Also if the helicopter were destroyed wouldn't the tail show more signs of damage, it looks more like it hit the ground too hard...
It depends on the materials it made from. Most metallics will fold and crumple. While nearly all aerospace composites just break cleanly at the weakest point. This may sound silly but you can see it in small scale with a piece of tin foil and a piece of plastic. The slightest impact on the tin foil leaves a mark. The same impact on the plastic wont. Its the same with aircraft skins.

There are some 'special application' composites are designed to shatter into pieces but they are brittle and have no structural strength so can't really be used in things like aircraft skins that need to flex.


Quote:
Originally Posted by bobtom View Post
Modified to avoid Pakistani radar?
I doubt these "stealthy" transports were made just for this mission. The research and development time frame let alone the actual production lead times would be measured in years at least. Adding this sort of kit to an existing airframe would require a lot of flight testing. This is probably something that they've been devleoping for a long time. There have been enough rumours about stealthy helicopters for years after all. 


breaching comms: breacher you have control? roger i have control, firing in 5, 4, 3, 2, 1
linear charge, oval charge
SOI timing - marking the timing, making sure you primed it correctly, you count down then mark on the point it has to go off, say mark, if it doesn't go off you start saying plus 1 plus 2 plus 3 for every second pasted.

target minimisation: try to keep lower than surrounding vegetation

[3:16:40 AM] Sandiford: vehicle damage just pretty much doesn't work at all unless you hit it with something explosive


clearing above you in cqb; good for main mosques in arma

recce: obs devices, some going all the way to x60 power

some dogs wearing mini bullet proof vests and pouches with spare ammo for the patrol
dog training goes through things like attention and control, loud noises and coping with that etc


never go near the rotor of a heli, come in from a 90 degree angle and to its side


recoiless rifle: It is physics because there is force exerted on the barrel there will be some kick, but since much of the gasses are released out the back 90% of the recoil is dissipated. Thus it is called a recoiless rifle.



when u stop a vehicle to get out of it, aim the weapons in an expected enemy route or most strategic attacking area on your position
therefore if contact happens, you can get straight on the weapon and you don't have to move it around






cqb: controlled burst to centre mass


I thought you guys had helmet cams during real ops, just for the sake of evidence in case of law suits. This would save some time and money in the court room. :wink:
Yes,we have and sometime,there is useful video sometimes bad light or another malfunctioning.



distractions can be as simple as your flashlight - flashlights can blind the enemy, strobe action flashlights are strange to see and can create a few more milliseconds of shock



"You shot an unarmed man!"

"He should have armed himself."

Clint Eastwood, Unforgiven 




Tip: Stay away from a weapon firing tracers, RPG and small arms will fall on that location




Velocity - Readings are a running average of all shots I have chronographed of the particular brand of ammunition. A running average provides the greatest possible number of readings and averages out the effects of environmental conditions.

FPE - The foot pounds of energy calculated using the advertised weight. (M x V x V / 450240)

Penetration - Depth in inches, is measured in a straight line from point of entry to point of deepest penetration.

Expansion - Recovered rounds were measured at multiple points and then averaged to account for uneven expansion. Area of Dispersion is used for fragmenting rounds.

STD DV - Standard Deviation, simply put measures the variability of data (less is better)

Weight - Recovered rounds were rinsed, all denim removed, then allowed to dry before weighing.

OAL - Over all length is listed because some shorter rounds can shift inside the magazine and become "rim locked".



hostages may be civilian, law enforcement, government or military personnel and you must understand the differences



INS TRICKS: Human sheilds, improvised devices


morphine: [12:38:52 PM] BushTucka: morphine reduces pain and therefore stops aim shake and vision blur, lowers heart rate

assault vehicles with the stairways or ladders going up the roof
you can fast rope off them, say if you're getting over a high wall you can get up the top and fast rope down or rappel
http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/fc/V%C3%A9hicule_intervention_GIGN.JPG


AAF are a small clan therefore we are trained in small unit tactics, we also cross-train within each others roles. AAF never stop learning.


cqb: dont want to look away from your arc so every man calls out if they're ok, 1 up, 2 up, etc

The US Army rate muscle memory at doing a task 200-500 times.

door charge is like a strip of detcord that lights and burns for a while then explodes, at the bottom is the firing device of which you turn the safety off and ignite - electrical or not
you fit the door down the hinges horizontally to explode the whole door inwards, the top of the door charge must be pushed in to not fall down

every piece of gear is tucked in

demo: electrical and non-electrical means of firing explosives

LB's and other heli's, operators attached to safety harness

Radio: 'This callsign engaged and suppressed enemy positions, this callsign is currently set-up at grid ref blah'


think it's 6B5 IIRC
[1/05/2011 11:49:22 PM] Sandiford: they have different plates that can be used, kevlar/titanium/ceramics


CQB:
Individual Equipment
1. Antibalistic helmet
2. Gas masks
3. Zodiacs
4. Climbing and descending material (different kinds)
5. Fast rope collection
6. Special tools of door intrusions (hydraulic systems, rams etc)
7. Standardized fillings in explosives
8. Endoscopes
9. Thermal display cameras
10.Infra-red detection cameras
11.Flash-noise grenades
12.Chemical/smoke material


CT involves dogs and bomb disposal also


What killed the warrior? Hesitation.


interactionmenu:
[12:08:19 PM] MilitantSausage: he doesn't have a right windows, he changed it to a right ctrl but it still didn't work
[12:08:38 PM] Thor2k4: ya cant be alt, ctrl, shift..
[12:12:28 PM] Thor2k4: the self menu, prob want to make it a single key, eaier to hit, u use it alot


"Against tanks and other armored targets, the weapon’s OTA (Overfly Top Attack) mode is used. Flying about 1m above the line of sight, the missile’s electronics sense the dense metal beneath and detonate above the target’s most vulnerable part – the roof. When facing lighter vehicles or fortified outposts, the DA (Direct Attack) mode can be used instead. for direct attack, the missile flies directly at the target. The sensors designed to detect the target below are disconnected, and the warhead fires shortly after impact.
http://www.defenseindustrydaily.com/images/ORD_NLAW_RB57_Cutaway_lg.gif"

[7:30:36 PM] Marcus AAF: cars take priority over positioning
[7:30:50 PM] Marcus AAF: u use the front of the car to deploy ur weapon
[7:30:56 PM] Marcus AAF: it IS one of the best places to go with an mg


marrying up: meeting up with another friendly squad? call out when you are coming in, how far away, what direction from and what in. Otherwise you FF shall happen.




http://www.astynomia.gr/images/stories/DOCS/Attachment11480_ENHMEROTIKO_EKAM_ENGL.pdf

slide bite: The inevitable injury of the inexperienced shooter caused by putting one's thumb in the path of the slide as it comes back to eject a shell.


http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d3B512-iA-o
So riddle me this... What happens when you place a charge on a small closet door at the end of a hallway? More specifically, where does the pressure wave travel to when it cannot dissipate into a room or escape? Watch to find out...

tracer: starts to burn at 70m and continues for nearly a kilometer on most NATO ammunition types - good for spotting targets and drawing friendly fire onto it, but also drawing enemy fire


plan missions in phases!
phase 1, 2, 3 etc
back-up phases, phase 1A, phase 1B
Deception plan aka escape and evade - involves creating tracks then looping ambush


gustav: Both 441B and D are the "same". The D version is improved over the B version. (better fuze and explosive)


killer group, guys who take out suspicious or advancing enemies while the rest retreat to a better spot to support them



magazine is a mechanical device to push projectiles into the chamber, clip is used to charge it into a magazine.
research booster clips


mortar teams use ranging markers
spotter/ranger rounds are used to see where the round lands
killing range is dictated by the softness of the ground

TB used rocks at set distances of 100 meters to range (large unusual rocks, some painted)
They also use white or red rocks to detect active or detactivated mines




i heard that SD with supersonic rounds = more range[Sunday, 24 April 2011 6:40 PM] Ryan: 
<<< cos its like a longer barrel, longer to expel the gases
that true?
[9:30:08 PM] Gnrnr: possible if a longer barrel.  A longer barrel can give a higher muzzle velocity esp if you replace the propellant to take advantage.  That is the reason for the change with155mm cannon to 52 calibre guns from 39 calibre guns.







Tritium: also known as hydrogen-3 used to illuminate crosshairs at night. Tritium makes anything glow so some use it on their pistol rear and front sights.


Instructions For USMC Scout Sniper Data Book 
 
The data book is set up in a 4x6 inch format to allow ease of use while in the field and on the range. It is primarily intended for USMC Scout Sniper reference use while in the Scout Sniper Course or in the field. 
It is recommended to use a 4x6 inch index binder or write in the rain binder/cover to protect your data book pages. You can use two round binder clips and a two hole punch to organize your data book. The data charts may be laminated or inserted into a flight crew checklist protector page. The pages may also be printed on write-in-the-rain paper. Simply print the sections you need. Older pages that are no longer relevant can be set aside and only the needed or relevant pages brought to the range or field. 

The pages and topics can be selected and simply printed from any computer then locally reproduced by the units and schools as needed. Simply select the portions of the book needed.

The data book is based around the USMC M40A3 sniper rifle with the M8541 Scout Sniper Day Scope. There are data charts for the .50 Caliber SASR and the USMC MK-11 as well. Note to the user: These charts are for a reference only and as conditions change (Ammo, Environment, Shooter, etc.) the charts may not be accurate. They, once again, should be used as a guide and starting point.

The pages themselves are pretty straight forward for use and your basic sniper can understand them.

The Zero/Cold Bore/Grouping pages, KD (Known Distance) and UKD (Unknown Distance)/Range Card pages are flexible for individual use and can be printed by themselves. During 100 pard/meter cold bore, groups of zero it is recommended to cut out the shot placement from the target and tape it right into the data page.

Elevation and windage data may be entered in MOA or Mils as needed. It is recommended to write what is actually on the corresponding turret or reticle hold.

Wind direction and velocity or a depiction of the mirage can be drawn in the coresponding box.

The target type, sizes, and speeds should be drawn in the plot boxes. The user can depict the call via a diagram and crosshairs or simply use a code C=center, etc. 

It is recommended while on a training range to use the "plot behind method" to save on time.

Keep an accurate, detailed, and understandable data book to assist in analyzing your shooting, your rifle/optic performance, ammunition performance, and the various environmental conditions.

Be cautious when using the charts and computing formulas. A common problem is switching from metric to US measurements -- stick with one or the other and ensure your math/conversions are correct and you are viewing the correct charts.


An average human can cover 21 feet (7 yards) in 1.5 seconds

It takes the same amount of time for a trained police officer from an open holster to draw his gun and aim


Bullet weight, decrease in velocity minus the intial terminal velocity, wind, direction of wind, angle of shot, shade or sun, angle of the sun, temperature of air and temperature of the round, humidity, coriolis effect, trigger squeeze, follow through, steady base, sight picture, sight alignment. 


M2/M3: The Browning M3 (the dual-gun, anti-aircraft version of the M2HB .50 Cal machine gun) used in the film has a perforated shroud around the barrel and a modern twist - a Muzzle Brake (similar to a Barrett M82A1) to divert the flash to the sides, especially useful if you're shooting from behind an armored shield and your only viewable area is directly above the barrel. The AN/M2 had a long heat shield for several reasons, not the least bit being that when used against aircraft in WW2, the bursts were much longer as gunners attempted to walk their fire (via tracers) onto their targets. The barrels grew red hot and the heat shield not only helped protect the crews, the added area improved the heat dissipation qualities of the barrel. It is not the standard air cooled Browning M2HB that is usually seen mounted on vehicles. The M2 and the M3 are visually identical however the M2 has a 600-750 RPM firing rate and the M3 has a 1000-1200 RPM firing rate. Since the gun is NOT firing as fast as a MAC-10, it must be the M2. 
mention drum mags, snail drum mags, beta-C etc

blind firing: pointing the weapon around a corner and firing. Blindfire is when a person fires a weapon from behind an object and does not reveal themself. While performing this, the person usually does not know where he/she is aiming and is thus shooting "blindly".
Remember, you don't move faster than you can shoot.
altitude: your ears pop so you know you are high up


.45vs9mm
.45 ACP is much easier to stop with armor than the smaller, faster 9 mm. On the other hand, the larger mass of .45 ACP allows it to do much better against windshields than 9 mm. What is optimal all depends on your likely engagement scenarios... 



The name also is used in paintball and airsoft, and is usually an illegal move due to possibly unnecessary injuries.

A common misconception is that it is an effective way to provide cover fire for an advancing team/squad mate, however, the point of cover fire is to suppress, but not necessarily kill, the enemy defending a position. While concentrated cover fire on their position will usually slow down or halt the enemy's own attack, blindfiring can be hopelessly inaccurate at medium and long range distances, to the point where gunfire will not come anywhere near the enemy, and will only inhibit their actions if they are under the mistaken impression that the bullets are actually being aimed at them. The only scenario where blindfire is a truly effective strategy is when cornered by numerous advancing enemies at close range.

TP = target practice ammo

theromaric = huge overpressure, used for cave busting

[2:30:37 PM] Matt 'Antipop' Hurley: dpcu = green. dpdu = desert

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XNxFiGvhLXE
The gunner is taking his time and the assistant gunner steps back to avoid the damage that can occur to the body when near the weapon for too many rounds per day. The CG is so loud it feels like you have been punched in your soul. The rounds fired in this vid are; HEAT, HE, smoke, and TP.

RL JAV: the user has to manually bracket the target with the target gates

50 ball:
Just the standard ball ammo will defeat body armor at ~1500 yds

Just the round passing by your torso at 1500 yds can collapse a lung. In Iraq our other team shot at a guy at 1450 meters and the round passed over his shoulder. He died from a collapsed lung and had severe brain damage.

If you get hit by the round, you are done. Plain and simple.


All other factors being equal, a heavier bullet will penetrate deeper.

pull tabs: a material, light, around the magazine of which you can pull - makes it pulling out of webbing and pouches a lot easier
stag hazard - parts of your weapon and equipment that might get stuck on foilage and create noise and interupt movement
cardboard between rounds and box to quell the sound a little bit but it can induce a malfunction if you put too much in
gloves for SAW: its hot and has sharp edges
sling for SAW: must not interfere with ammunition feed and will not melt through incase it touches the barrel
at night with SAW, some people take off the scope/sight all together and put an IR laser in its place

smoke can be used 4:
• Blinding – launching the round directly at the target
• Screening – dispersing a smoke screen between the enemy and own position
• Spotting – showing the position of a target to artillery and close air support
Use AAF forums for more information


Cool video but just for fun as it is useless practically.

2 plates to stop a .50 BMG API round - definitly was not a tungsten core - and 5 inches of armor - that would look silly and make it almost impossible to move.

2nd - those rounds hit with the same kenetic energy as being hit by a 10,000lb Dodge Ram 3500 traveling at 60mph - your rib cage, lungs and heart would be crushed = dead(notice they have the plates backed up by a 4000lbs vehicle backed by a pile of cars- not a 200lbs dumbie!!)
leviathan12052003 3 weeks ago 
Reply ShareRemoveFlag for spamBlock UserUnblock User
@leviathan12052003 Two rounds were 709 grain steel core, the third round was? an Armour Piercing round. 2 inches of LOF non ceramic not 5 inches as you stated. Plus 2/3 of the kenetic energy is absorbed and turned into heat. The application we were showing was the effective stopping ability of the plates, These plates cost less than ceramic or steel plates and stop more without penetration. Something that performs like this product is far from useless, the applications are endless. 


@denka95 I agree Dragon Skin is a incredible product, but the US military found it to be flawed. LOF non ceramic stand alone plates also stops multiple rounds from many calibers including 300 win mag and 338 Lapau and has been explosives tested. LOF plates are less costly than Point Blank (Interceptor) they do not need to be xrayed annually saving money and will save? lives.



marine rifle platoon callsigns:
well for example each battery in our battalion has its own callsign, usually it shares the same first letter as the battery/company, i.e. Alpha battery is Archangel, my battery (india) is Iron Maiden. as far as platoon itd probably be a number. So in a battalion-wide net itd be like "Iron Maiden 2" for second platoon, in intra-company itd probably just be a number, so like "2-3" would be 2nd Platoon 3rd Squad
[12:15:27 PM] Sandiford: US army use 6 for actual, 7 for PSG, 5 for XO




arty:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MOS_0341
[10:42:47 AM] CD (Nou): pie, Marines use MACS now, the modular charge system right?
[10:42:54 AM] CD (Nou): or do they still have the old bag charges
[11:02:39 AM] CD (Nou): pie
[11:02:39 AM] CD (Nou): also
[11:03:08 AM] CD (Nou): do you fire the M107 HE or the M795 HE (I cant figure out if thats been deployed yet, or its still in testing)
[11:10:36 AM] Mike Kelly: we fire both MACS and the M3A1/M4A2, and both the regular and tallboy HEs
[11:11:11 AM] beitadf: do you prefer the tallboy or regular .. err .. rounds?
[11:11:49 AM] CD (Nou): the M795, the tallboy i assume, has better range and bursting fragmentation than the M107 (which dates back to the 1930s in its design)
[11:12:09 AM] Mike Kelly: ive never fired the tallboy myself, but the M107 is probably lighter, so yeah
yea im trying to do the charge system for the M109A6
[11:14:18 AM] CD (Nou): i like how they call charge 8 in most of the ballistics docs the M119A2 and its real name is a 7 red bag
[11:14:19 AM] CD (Nou): yea
[11:14:22 AM] CD (Nou): im doing the AFCS
[11:14:43 AM] Mike Kelly: odd, charge 8 stick is M203A1
[11:14:55 AM] CD (Nou): yea in my docs thats a 8S
[11:14:56 AM] CD (Nou): or super 8
[11:15:05 AM] CD (Nou): the M119 is a 7R
[11:15:12 AM] CD (Nou): but labled as being the 8th charge
[11:15:20 AM] CD (Nou): after the 7W
[11:15:34 AM] Mike Kelly: but tell me, how many incriments in a charge 7 white bag
[11:15:52 AM] CD (Nou): 5 isnt it?
[11:15:54 AM] CD (Nou): 3-7
[11:16:34 AM] Mike Kelly: expert mode: what is the difference between the M549 and M549A1
[11:17:02 AM] CD (Nou): im not sure, i know thats the RAP round... Rocket-On and Rocket-Off? I could look it up but im just guessing
s it the max charge?
[11:17:33 AM] CD (Nou): due to sensitivity of the explosive?
[11:17:46 AM] Mike Kelly: correct
[11:17:51 AM] Sandiford: haha
[11:17:56 AM] Mike Kelly: 549 is comb-b, 549a1 is TNT
[11:18:41 AM] CD (Nou): yea, its funny for the 105mm rounds they dont add a suffix to the type
[11:18:52 AM] CD (Nou): for fill
[11:19:00 AM] CD (Nou): but most are RDX/TNT
but if you fire a comp-b shell with the charge 8 on the M119 (the gun, not the charge) then it would be stupid. damn thing would backflip :D
[11:20:31 AM] CD (Nou): the M795 can produce stickers below charge 3
[11:21:26 AM] Mike Kelly: im pretty sure the fucking excal can only be fired with charge 7 WBs and up
[11:21:35 AM] Mike Kelly: bitch is so heavy
[11:22:39 AM] CD (Nou): nah, 3 and up, as is for most of the similar ballistics rounds like the M483A1 and other cargo rounds
[11:23:04 AM] CD (Nou): the range at charge 3 is like 2000m though
[11:23:10 AM] CD (Nou): so its pretty short
[11:23:26 AM] CD (Nou): the jump in MV between 7R and 8S is like 200m/s haha
[11:23:27 AM] Mike Kelly: fuck the taxpayers, DIRECT FIRE EXCAL
[11:23:40 AM] CD (Nou): haha yea do Killer Jr with them
[11:23:48 AM] CD (Nou): direct fire time fuze 0.75 seconds
pie, for MACS with the M232 do you tie those together somehow or just load them one by one or?
sry bout that, but no for the MACS you just load them in without anything attaching them together
[11:38:04 AM] CD (Nou): roger, can you carry all of them at once or does that take longer for like a 6 or 7...
[11:42:04 AM] Mike Kelly: ive never fired hotels before, but i imagine its as many as you can, then youve got your powder monkey there to hand you the rest


roger, they dont have higher than battalion FDC like in the Army?
[12:19:50 PM] Mike Kelly: probably, but keep in mind one battery supports an entire grunt battalion, a single battalion would be attached to a regiment
[12:19:50 PM] Mike Kelly: probably, but keep in mind one battery supports an entire grunt battalion, a single battalion would be attached to a regiment
[12:20:32 PM] CD (Nou): yea, i think artillery is laid out different in the marines than in the army... in the army it seems like assets are controlled from the regimental or corp level
[12:20:42 PM] CD (Nou): for support
[12:20:57 PM] CD (Nou): unless its like air cav
[12:21:42 PM] Mike Kelly: take that organization worth a grain of salt though, back when my battery was in afghan they had half the battery on foot patrols while the other half supported them with the guns
[12:23:06 PM] Mike Kelly: basically its battery to battalion, battalion to regiement, regiment to division.
[12:25:46 PM] CD (Nou): where is HIMARS located? Thats higher than battalion isnt it?
[12:26:28 PM] Mike Kelly: neg, only active duty HIMARs is 5/11, but they only deploy by battery, and its like a theater-level asset
[12:27:38 PM] Mike Kelly: bunch of lazy bums sitting in their trucks all day



[12:31:44 PM] Mike Kelly: speaking of the air, fucking cobra flew like 20 feet off our barracks earlier and set off a car alarm




[12:24:14 PM] Ty (Militantsausage) [AAF]: lol what your talking about sounds pretty brutal, also sandi I think in WW2 there were a couple of cases of germans initially survivng a .50 cal round to the leg from a M2 browing, but because no one could really help when their whole leg and possibly hip is torn off they died soon after
Vietnam some VC took 50 cal at short range and lived... a while.
[12:31:16 PM] Ryan: and normally <100m engagement range




wound ballistics + velocity:
[12:32:01 PM] Ryan: velocity isn't mentioned a lot in wound ballistics, maybe for fragmenting, barrier penetration and weight retention but that's it
[12:32:39 PM] Griff: mainly due to the fact that velocity drops violently upon impact and sectional density steps in
[12:33:22 PM] Griff: but there are reports of people survive at least briefly, 50 cal shots. The book about the snipers in iraq I have, took  a guys arm off while he was in the car. Guy got out, stumbled and collapsed
[12:34:42 PM] Griff: yeah fmj doesnt do much apart from fragment. Hell softpoints would increase casualties a shit ton if they could use them
[12:36:12 PM] Griff: you know the brits found a work around to the non expanding projectiles. They made wood core lead encased rounds for the enfields
[12:38:02 PM] Griff: hmm interesting. reading up on the 50 FMJ rounds. Apparently the jacket is extremely thick which reduced fragmentation
[12:40:13 PM] Griff: chest shots actually can result in small exit wounds if it passes through the lungs as there is so little tissue to slow it down (i.e lungs are mainly air), it doesnt tumble
[12:41:37 PM] Griff: muscle tissue is very dense so more muscle is way more weight than fatty tissue
 50 cal ball, rough calc. 2950fps will yaw 90 degrees at 12" depth
[12:44:48 PM] Griff: BUT. if the bullet is going slower, say right down to 670fps, it will tumble twice at 12:


center mass, front on: [12:45:49 PM] Griff: goes through a rib, through the lungs, starts a tumble and shatters out the back
[12:46:34 PM] Ryan: hitting bone and rib will slow it too, more chance of it again tumbling and yawing and also bones fragments
[12:47:05 PM] Griff: anything above 2000fps shouldnt do much to slow such a large projectile
[12:47:11 PM] Griff: should just shatter the bone


http://jasonfalla.blogspot.com/2010/01/short-range-ballistics-and-200-meter.html
I would like to add that your statement about M855 not being "lethal" beyond 200m is not completely accurate. I think a more fair statement would be that the consistancy of lethal mechanism beyond 200m is not predictable. Much of this has to do with striking yaw and flatness of the projo beyond 200m and the reduced velocity beyond 200m.




.50cal:
No...If it imparted that much energy to the air, it would slow down very quickly. If you look at wounds cause by a .50 cal bullet, the entry wound is clearly, unmistakably smaller than the exit wound, meaning that all the expansion goes on inside the target, which is part of it's lethality.
In fact, some of the highest velocity bullets actually do less damage than you would expect because they go through the target so quickly that they don't expand very much.


There is no international treaty prohibition against the use of any caliber of weapon against any type of target.  The prohibitions are based on the nature of the target, e.g. aircrew under canopy after abandoning their aircraft are prohibited targets, paratroopers under canopy are fair game.  The general prohibition is against weapons that cause "undue suffering".  It is left to the belligerents to decide what may fall into that category.  The United States has traditionally followed the rule that only small arms caliber projectiles, defined as a projectile whose diameter does not exceed 1 inch, will be used against single personnel targets, however this has as much to do with practicality and ammunition consumption as any relation to the Hague Conventions.  The only treaty provision prohibiting projectiles specifies those that flatten or deform significantly on impact with the body, those that have cases that are scored, pierced, or do not totally encase the core; those that are filled with glass; those that are coated with poison or any other substance that would inflame the wound or increase the risk of infection.

I was told something generally similar when I went through basic training, with the added little bit of humor that while you could not shoot personnel with a .50 caliber machinegun, you could engage their equipment -- which could include, say, canteens, helmets, and ammo pouches.  So you could *technically* shoot them, because you were shooting their stuff, not them

Second, the .50 caliber round and its foreign contemporaries (remember, cal 50 started as an early anti-tank round) like the Russian 12.7mm and 14.5mm, the British Boys .55 caliber, the massively overbore German and Polish 7.92mm AT rifle rounds, etc., just did not exist when the conventions in question were formulated.
 
Finally, this would only leave the issue of kinetic energy, which is not addressed at all by the conventions.  It was legal to fire cast iron roundshot at massed infantry formations within living memory of the conventions' negotiators, so it is hard to see how or why they would have argued against a round that is much less gruesome than getting hit with a twelve pound cannon ball.



What anatomic structures are hit and whether the bullet is point-forward or has upset during travel through tissue determines the severity of wounds, including those from .50 BMG. FWIW, I have been involved in patient care with individuals who survived shots from the .50 BMG, even with one guy hit at very close range from an AD.





that a 750 grain 50 BMG projectile(such as the Amax) will deliver more energy than a .44 Magnum at 1.5 miles. 


(Mass X Velocity squared)/450,400= KE

Mass= 750 grains 
Velocity=?
Constant= 450,400
KE=741

750 x V squared÷450,400 = 741

750 x V squared = 333,746,400

V squared = 444,995.2 

square root of V = Square root of 444,995.2

V=667.07 


Therefore a 750 grain, 50 BMG projectile would be impacting with a velocity of at least 667 feet per second at 1.5 miles! By using an online metric to english conversion calculator 
1.5 miles = 2414 meters 
2310 meters(canadian sniper shot)= 1.435 miles or 2526 yards!


But IIRC, a given bullet begins to yaw at shallower depth at lower velocity than it does at higher velocity. In the case of the .50 BMG, then, one could expect it to be tipping over into base-first orientation at a depth of 12". To be as clear as I can: at 2950 fps bullet yaw is approximately 90 degrees at 12" depth of penetration; if my understanding is correct, at an impact velocity of only 670 fps, the bullet yaw would be closer to 180 degrees at 12" penetration. 

Hornady lists the following specs for the 750 gr .50 cal AMax bullet:

Ballistic coefficient: 1.050
Sectional Density: 0.412





losing weight when hit by 50 cal?

material removed via large exit wound?
Multiple medium sized exit wounds.










good question about the .50 AE 300 gr Speer Gold Dot vs .50 BMG FMJ. If DocGKR's graph is consulted, we see the .50 BMG bullet begins to yaw at 10 cm or so (4") and is perpendicular in orientation at 30 cm (12"). This suggests that the .50 BMG, if penetrating front-to-back on a human torso, will exit when it is presenting maximal surface area to penetrated tissue, i.e., when permanent crush cavity is at its greatest diameter. My guess is that this would produce a very large exit wound, and if its wound track happens to include the spinal column, secondary missiles in the form of bone fragments are going to increase damage even further. The .50 AE Gold Dot bullet should behave like most handgun bullets and reach maximum expansion within 4-6 cm of the entrance wound, and the permanent crush cavity begins to taper down from there. It would therefore be less likely to create as massive an exit wound as the .50 BMG.

These predictions are based on the assumption of a center-chest hit such that the bullet traverses relatively solid tissues through the thorax. A more lateral wound track through lung would yield a slower rate of bullet yaw due to the low density of the lung (the lung is largely air, after all). In this sort of wound, I would expect the .50 BMG bullet to produce a much smaller exit wound than in the case of a center-chest wound, whereas the expanding .50 AE bullet might very well do significantly more damage, both to the lung and to posterior thoracic wall tissues on exit. The .50 AE Gold Dot will also fragment to some degree, and secondary missile/fragment damage may be much more extensive than with an identically-placed BMG hit. (In part, the degree of damage to lung tissue in GSW's is determined by whether the bullet passes through a rib or between ribs on entry; bullet fragmentation can be minimal when a JHP or JSP bullet passes between ribs.)

The tricky part in this sort of speculation is the heterogeneity of tissue densities in the chest. 

It would be very interesting to test this proposition on an animal cadaver such as small hogs or deer to see if my predictions bear out. Hmmm. 





practical ranges are important, anti-materiel rifles are not that accurate though they can buck the wind better than others and do not expect it to kill a long-ranges ALL the time, it can act like a smaller caliber at those ranges




















Q:I'm writing a book and one of my characters has been shot through his back with a revolutionary flintlock rifle. He has been given no treatment except a rude bandage made from someone's shirt. Then he was made to march for ten days through the African wilderness. He's around fifteen or so, and was emaciated at the time of the shooting. What would the progression of this illness be, assuming that he did not die withing the set ten days of blood loss?

A:A flintlock rifle....The black powder could potentially cauterize the entrance and exit wound and minimize blood loss (at close range). So if he could survive this, the next battle would be battling serious infection. Infections of this type would first be noticed in the localized area of injury, redness, swelling, discharge from the wound. In modern times such a wound would be debrided of dead and infected tissue cleansed and packed with sterile dressings (strips of sterile material inserted directly into the wound to promote healing). The patient would also receive IV antibiotics. I will assume these options are not available to your character so he would likely succumb to sepsis within hours, or perhaps days if exceptionally strong and lucky. The progression to death would start with Bacteremia (bacteria entering the circulatory system) which frequently elicits a vigorous immune system response. If allowed to progress the patient will become septic and experience severe temperature disturbances (chills, fever), abnormal respiration (rapid and shallow breathing), and abnormal heart rate, this is referred to as septic shock, and may result in multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, quickly resulting in death
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bacteremia





Through and through is also used in forensics to describe a bullet that has passed through a body, leaving both entry and exit wounds.


quote:
The M858 plastic and M860 plastic tracer are intended for use when training restrictions limit the maximum range of the weapon(s) to be used in a firing range. (Meaning the rounds melt away) 


Actually what it means is the bullet shed velocity faster.


Is it also possible a aircrafts ejection seat can act as a items crate containing basic first aid equipment, smoke grenades, flares, etc and possibly the pilots primary weapon. The pilot then after landing would need to find their ejection seat for supplies before evac.

All pilots kit based on Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE)
-Pilots kit (On person sidearm,etc)

-Personal survival kit (PSK) under seat, tethered to pilots parachute harness.

-More comprehensive PSK in compartment on Seat along with radio transponder.

-Primary weapon usually located on aircraft stores as too big to be fitted to seat.

A pilot's primary weapon is usually a para version of various rifles, shortened down so it can fit in the storage compartment of his seat, retrievable after he lands or ejects. In fact, a pilot generally has a full SERE kit within that compartment, for SHTF situations.

Fast Jet Crew - I don`t know of any ejection seat that has a longer weapon in it, certainly in the UK anyway. The pistol is usually part of the personal survival jacket attached to the person. It has to be a small light pistol (UK has a PPK) the G on ejection is often to high to carry anything heavier.

Rotary - Pilots have a rifle stored in the aircraft which as you suggest on an ejection should stay in the aircraft and only come out with them on a "Get Out". The weapon is securely fastened for two reason, insecure cargo is always an issue, but secondly to stop your damn passengers grabbing your weapon and taking it with them :) Currently most rotary crew have a pistol on their person as well, in case they don`t have time to grab anything heavier.
rotary-wing aka helo

http://community.discovery.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/9741919888/m/4041982359/p/11 < USE THIS STUFF FOR 50 CAL







this ently was done with a (simulation) flashbang, the first guy has front sector and his job is to go into the depth of the room - that way he is out of the fatal funnel and the? 2. and 3. guy can clear corners

this is a modified technique using the best from the wall flood and the room flood technique




convoy: inform when slowing down, speeding up, turning what direction and when. Inform of speed so you don't create too many gaps. Call the speed of travel.


grenade out, frag out, enemy grenade, enemy frag


comsec: communication security, zeroised to keep good security, changed everytime you think you are compromised or a set time


cqb: immidiate threat technique (SAS CQB drill)

medic: blunt trauma is the shockwaves passing through the armour to the body itself, it can cause concussion, unconsciousness, fractures and haemoragging

Courses:
1. Soldiering Skills/Battle Drills
2. Fire Team Operations Course
3. Fire Team Leaders Course
4. Navigation Course
5. Radio Telephone Operator Course
6. Platoon Support Weapons (CSW's, AT's, Marksman)
7. Basic Armoured Driver
8. Basic Armoured Gunner
9. Basic Armoured Crew Commander
10. Artillery Gunner
11. Forward Observer
12. Forward Air Controller
13. Basic Urban Warfare
14. Pilot Course
15. Medic Course
16. Reconaissance
17. Sniper
18. Convoy Operations
19. Offensive Operations
20. Defensive Operations
21. Operation/Mission Commander
22. Squad Leaders Course








karen people: 
The so called Four Cuts counter insurgency operation had its four principals:

Cut off funds to insurgents
Cut off support to insurgents
Cut off recruits to insurgents
Cut off the heads of insurgents 






Taught to the Royal Marines Commandos and other units throughout Arctic Warfare Training.

Haversacks is an acronym meaning;
H Have a map, compass and first aid kit at all times
A Always wear the correct clothes and have spares
V Victuals for emergencies
E Ensure you have the proper equipment
R Remember the international distress signal
S Seek local advice
A Always leave a route card
C Conserve your energy
K Know your limitations
S Strength in numbers


acre: [6:48:19 AM] skinnerl: ARMA II has a system called Advanced Combat Radio Environment or ACRE. ACRE is a TeamSpeak based in game positional audio and radio system that is like Mumble on steroids. It not only has in game positional audio, ACRE offers a combat radio system where you can choose from 4 different radio types, each with frequency selection. This allows an integrated in game system of communication that is central to the game and the way it is played. There isn't 3 programs to run and 5 things to differentiate between during play - you have 1 integrated communications system for ARMA II.

cold/winter: Same with ski's make sure you have the correct ski wax - it is used for the base of ski grips for new snow and icy conditions. Glide is normally used for slushy or normal conditions. Snow shoes are great for deep snow.

You also have to be aware of avalanches, signs are booming - the sound made by tonnes of snow collapsing, you have to also be aware of unstable layers of crystalised snow - this normally forms early in the season.

The environment is an important one to pay attention too, it can change in an instant. High, cold winds (wind chill factor) are the biggest nightmares, it's good to create high walls or get into vegetation to protect yourself from it. Snow caves are probably the best to go for if you have a bit of time, energy or with a group of people - just make sure you have a cold trench, that is a trench around the bottom where the cold air will sink into to (as colder air is heavier) - also make sure you have some kind of venetilation, especially incase it caves in, you can just stick your ski pole through the roof and create a hole.

Remember that propellant burns slower in cold temperatures therefore there is a reduce in effective ranges, you have to aim higher because muzzle velocity is slower. There are lots of little tricks like using skies crossed over for make-shift bi-pods.






medic: arterial bleeds. soldiers and marines are now issued a CAT (Combat Application Tourniquet) that can be applied one-handed if need be. the only other method we had to stop arterial bleeds in the field was quik-clot, but its use was dangerous (not to mention the extra work of getting it back OUT of the wound in the rear, so it could be properly treated.)
[7:53:17 AM] dumtejp: <sort of agrees with beta> Morphine has been removed from direct combat use in Sweden as far as I know. Adrenaline (or epinephrine) can still be used to prevent heart failure though, and together with electro-shocks it can be use to restart a heart. But yeah, can't restart a heart on its own.
[7:41:22 AM] beitadf: an epipen doesnt restart a heart
[7:41:28 AM] beitadf: or wake someone from unconcsiousness ..
[7:41:33 AM] beitadf: it treats beestings
[7:41:44 AM] beitadf: for people alergic to them
[8:00:49 AM] beitadf: its like 3% to restart heart
[8:00:54 AM] beitadf: 5% with epi
[8:00:57 AM] beitadf: and thats in a hospital
[8:01:07 AM] beitadf: and it is epinephrine
[8:01:44 AM] beitadf: if anyone but a medic tries it
[8:02:16 AM] beitadf: there is a big ass chance they fuck up and cause some serious problems if the heart is ever restarted
[10:12:36 AM] Chris Krause: epi is used in sudden cardiac arrest, combined with CPR and possibly vassopressin to restart an arrested heart
[10:12:45 AM] Chris Krause: i think its only used in combat medicine for bee stings
only to be used for anaphylactic shock and cardiac arrest
[10:13:39 AM] jaynus: e.g. allergies or heart go byebye
[11:08:12 AM] beitadf: tourniquet!
[11:08:17 AM] beitadf: and ummm
[11:08:19 AM] thepiespy: fuck yeah
[11:08:27 AM] beitadf: stuff guts back in and put a big thing of sterile dressing over it
[11:08:43 AM] thepiespy: ah but you dont try and force the guts in
[11:08:57 AM] thepiespy: you grab the sides of the hole, then lift and shake, they fall back in then
[11:09:21 AM] Impulse 9: well forcing the guts in would increase the odds of foriegn debris and other shit getting in, much less what is on your hands.




all marines and soldiers are trained in the use of tourniquets, and quite a few aside from medics/corpsmen also receive training on IV's, oral and nasal airways, and various other tidbits.





.50cal, firing from the hip in a small room (in real life, doing this would cause anyone to go deaf). 


mines: cover them with dirt or use dirt mounds/objects to hide them


reloading: pro's count the amount of rounds left, so they have a round in the chamber when reloading


attachments and types: dual-magazines taped "jungle style", spare shell holder,


100mph tape, electrical tape, duct tape (look at that video of things you can do with duct tape and add that info, including over the muzzle when raining)


silencer: a .50 caliber weapon (or any supersonic round, including the 5.56x45mm) can only be partially suppressed. You still have the noise of the muzzle blast, action, round impacting etc.


[7:16:03 PM] Ty (Militantsausage) [AAF]: yeah I only call a very specific compass bearing when someone is within 10m of my position and the target is more than 500m away, and I call North, east, south, west for anything over 150m away, everything below that is left, right, rear etc. plus also in vehicles
[7:14:13 PM] Ty (Militantsausage) [AAF]: there is an insurgent on the other side of the wall "I have a target at uhhhhh... 260 degrees... Oh wait he took a step now he is at 350


magazine well is where the magazine goes
claymores can be used on road blocks - mines can be used around the areas you do not want vehicles to go - but civilians might do that accidently so it's good to use hedgehogs

Marcus' Sidestep: Moving to the side, towards the nearest corner, facing inwards towards the main area of the room with the M249 SAW, spraying the whole room at chest height and covering the targets with holes.



sabots: I've never had any luck with Sabots in my rifles. The bullets go fast but are not accurate.

CT: aircraft clearance drills (tubular assaults). Flood with operators, use multiple insertion and entry methods.

WP: The "smoke" is NOT a powder, but a mist. The reaction products of burning WP are extremely hydroscopic, resulting in further reactions with ambient moisture in the air to form droplets of phosphoric acid - H3PO4. This mist is an irritant, but not as dangerous as pentoxide itself - small amounts of phosphoric acid are used in many soft-drinks like Coca-Cola to enhance the flavor.

mark explosives: sticks, certain plant life, chemlights and other objects can be used
with those marked objects you can point out enemy positions, aka red light (being chemlight) above that two rocks up

if your surroundings are GREEN and you need a flare - try not to use a GREEN one

assist mg feeds the belt, carries ammo and protects the MG but also squashes trees/grass to the front for MG to see

comms: 'Not heard, over', 'Alpha presume Bravo dead, over' Revert to diff chans if comms are compromised by enemy
Callsigns 'Misfit' etc
Break comms, hold comms - same thing
Break means a break within the communications before the message is sent, it may be in the middle of a setence or before something important like a grid reference - it may be due to the patrol under contact so be patient and waitout
To follow is a good phrase, it means something is to follow, e.g. Grid Reference to follow *2 second break* Grid Reference 123 456, the guy receiving it should be able to remember it clearly or write it down easily
PRC-343 aka PRR, is independant of all other channels - it has its own frequencies

SMAW use SMAW spotting rounds

8 digit co-ords: read it top to bottom, left to right

mortar crews use ballistic computers + laser designator to get exact or close enough hits


vehicles: Almost all Perentie 4x4 vehicles have a GVM of 3.2 tonne (With a couple of exceptions). Those being the SRV and RFSV which have a gvm of 3.6 tonne.

trigger discipline - trigger-finger off the trigger, straight and leaning against the trigger guard, safety on for best results and less FF/TK - you just click F to swap from safety to semi

mags:  it is not a clip it is a magazine. clips FEED magazines. such as the SKS. it uses a stripper''clip' to charges the internal magazine.
mag repacking: MG belts are easy: its almost as easy as putting one of them paperclip things on a stack of paper.

200rnd SAW boxes can be a royal pain to open sometimes, though. the 100rnd pouches use a simple zipper and are quite easy to use. the 240 and 60 just clip an actual ammocan to the weapon, iirc, though often the 240 is carried with the belt loose to ease the linking of belts in a firefight.
Repacking takes around 90seconds.

Implemented. The overall time depends on the amount of mags and their capacity. It takes 12 seconds per 1 x 30 rnd mag. During the process you should not move or change stance. There is a progress indicator. Due to the realization it is impossible to do the repacking gradually, it is done all mags at once, so if you interrupt the process at any moment, even at 99%, the repacking will not have happened and your mags layout will stay as it was.



The standard G36s can't use Stanag mags (they can be modified) and M16/M4 can't use G36 mags.
You have to use the Beta C-Mags.

Many firearms skills can be practiced without ammo, including; 
1. Loading and unloading
2. Malfunction drills
3. Use of cover
4. Muzzle discipline and safety
5. Building searches
6. Even marksmanship (dry fire)
7. Weapon retention and empty weapon fighting
8. Plus so many others

The 3 most important things on cqc are: 
1. Proper iscosoles firing position 
2. Team work and proper movement 
3. Proper clearing techniques 

INS distraction tactics: scout engages vehicle, gunner orientates to fire at the threat but the ambush is to the front - therefore it takes longer for the gunner to orientate and you have the advantage


noise discipline/radio discpline - check mag pouches (use cardboard) etc, jump around, no noise. turn radios down/off when movement to contact, use the 'beeps' not actually talking to communicate, aka 'do you read me' '2 beeps' 2 beeps meaning yes


chemlights by claymores can be used for base defence but not recommended - only in emergency, make sure they are marked or pointed out


Combat Firearms "Report Card" from  Afghanistan    

This email is from a Marine who's in Afghanistan ; his buddy Jordan provides many of the details.    

No politics here; just a Marine with a bird's eye view opinion. 

US Weapons:  

1)   The M-16 rifle: Thumbs down.  Chronic jamming problems with the talcum powder like sand over there.  The sand is everywhere.  Jordan says you feel filthy 2 minutes after coming out of the shower. The M-4 carbine version is more popular because it's lighter and shorter, but it has jamming problems also.  They lack the ability to mount the various optical gun sights and weapons lights on the pica tinny rails, but the weapon itself is not great in a desert environment.  

They all hate the 5.56mm (.223) round.  Poor penetration on the cinder block structure common over there and even torso hits can't be reliably counted on to put the enemy down. 

Fun fact:  

  1)   Random autopsies on dead insurgents show a high level of opiate use.  

  2)   The M243 SAW (squad assault weapon): .223 cal. Drum fed light machine gun.  Big thumbs down..  Universally considered a piece of sh-t.  Chronic jamming problems, most of which require partial dis-assembly (that's fun in the middle of a firefight).  

  3)   The M9 Beretta 9mm: Mixed bag.  Good gun performs well in desert environment; but they all hate the 9mm cartridge.  The use of handguns for self-defense is actually fairly common.  Same old story on the 9mm: Bad guys hit multiple times and still in the fight.  

  4)   Mossberg 12ga. Military shotgun: Works well, used frequently for clearing houses to good effect.   (Great weapon - I used these when transporting prisoners. 

  5)   The M240 Machine Gun: 7.62 NATO (.308) cal. belt fed machine gun, developed to replace the old M-60 (what a beautiful weapon that was!!) Thumbs up. Accurate, reliable, and the 7.62 round puts 'em down.  Originally developed as a vehicle mounted weapon, more and more are being dismounted and taken into the field by infantry.  The 7.62 round chews up the structure over there. 

  6)   The M2 50 cal heavy machine gun: Thumbs way, way up.  "Ma Deuce" is still worth her considerable weight in gold.  The ultimate fight stopper - puts their dicks in the dirt every time.  The most coveted weapon in-theater.  

  7)   The .45 pistol: Thumbs up.  Still the best pistol around out there.  Everybody authorized to carry a sidearm is trying to get their hands on one. With few exceptions, one can reliably be expected to put 'em down with a torso hit.  The special ops guys (who are doing most of the pistol work) use the HK military model and supposedly love it..  The old government model.45's are being re-issued en masse. 

  8)   The M-14: Thumbs up.  They are being re-issued in bulk, mostly in a modified version to special ops guys.  Modifications include lightweight Kevlar stocks and low power red dot or ACOG sights.  Very reliable in the sandy environment, and they love the 7.62 round. 

  9)   The Barrett .50 cal sniper rifle: Thumbs way up.  Spectacular range and accuracy and hits like a freight train.  Used frequently to take out vehicle suicide bombers (we actually stop a lot of them) and barricaded enemy. It is definitely here to stay.  

  10)   The M24 sniper rifle:  Thumbs up.  Mostly in .308 but some in 300 win mag. Heavily modified Remington 700's.  Great performance.  Snipers have been used heavily to great effect.  Rumor has it a marine sniper on his third tour in Anbar province has actually exceeded Carlos Hathcock's record for confirmed kills with OVER 100.  

  11)   The new body armor: Thumbs up.  Relatively light at approx. 6 lbs. and can reliably be expected to soak up small shrapnel and even will stop an AK-47 round. 

The bad news:   Hot as sh-t to wear, almost unbearable in the summer heat(which averages over 120 degrees).  Also, the enemy now goes for head shots whenever possible.  All the bullsh-t about the "old" body armor making our guys vulnerable to the IED's was a non-starter.  The IED explosions are enormous and body armor doesn't make any difference at all in most cases.  

  12)   Night Vision and Infrared Equipment: Thumbs way up.  Spectacular performance.  Our guys see in the dark and own the night, period.  Very little enemy action after evening prayers.  More and more enemy being whacked at night during movement by our hunter-killer teams.  We've all seen the videos.  

  13)   Lights: Thumbs up.  Most of the weapon mounted and personal lights are Surefire's, and the troops love 'em.  Invaluable for night urban operations.  Jordan carried a $34 Surefire G2 on a neck lanyard and loved it.  I can't help but notice that most of the good fighting weapons and ordnance are 50 or more years old!!  With all our technology, it's the WWII and Vietnam era weapons that everybody wants!!  The infantry fighting is frequent, up close and brutal.  No quarter is given or shown.  

Bad guy weapons:  

1)   Mostly AK47's.  The entire country is an arsenal.  Works better in the desert than the M16 and the .308 Russian round kills reliably.  PKM belt fed light machine guns are also common and effective.  Luckily, the enemy mostly shoots like sh-t.  Undisciplined "spray and pray" type fire. However, they are seeing more and more precision weapons, especially sniper rifles. ( Iran , again)       

  2)   The RPG: Probably the infantry weapon most feared by our guys.  Simple, reliable and as common as dogsh-t.  The enemy responded to our up-armored Humvees by aiming at the windshields, often at point blank range. Still killing a lot of our guys. 

  3)   The IED: The biggest killer of all.  Can be anything from old Soviet anti-armor mines to jury rigged artillery shells.  A lot found in Jordan 's area were in abandoned cars.  The enemy would take 2 or 3 155 mm artillery shells and wire them together.  Most were detonated by cell phone and the explosions are enormous.  You're not safe in any vehicle, even an M1 tank.  Driving is by far the most dangerous thing our guys do over there.  Lately, they are much more sophisticated "shape charges" (Iranian) specifically designed to penetrate armor.   
Fact:   Most of the ready made IED's are supplied by Iran , who is also providing terrorists (Hezbollah types) to train the insurgents in their use and tactics. That's why the attacks have been so deadly lately.  Their concealment methods are ingenious, the latest being shape charges, in Styrofoam containers spray painted to look like the cinderblocks that litter all Iraqi roads.  We find about 40% before they detonate, and the bomb disposal guys are unsung heroes of this war.  

  4)   Mortars and rockets: Very prevalent.  The soviet era 122mm rockets (with an 18km range) are becoming more prevalent.  One of Jordan 's NCO's lost a leg to one.  These weapons cause a lot of damage "inside the wire".  Jordan 's base was hit almost daily his entire time there by mortar and rocket fire, often at night to disrupt sleep patterns and cause fatigue (It did)..  More of a psychological weapon than anything else.  The enemy mortar teams would jump out of vehicles, fire a few rounds, and then haul ass in a matter of seconds. 

Fun fact:   Captured enemy have apparently marveled at the marksmanship of our guys and how hard they fight.  They are apparently told in Jihad school that the Americans rely solely on technology, and can be easily beaten in close quarters combat for their lack of toughness.  Let's just say they know better now. 

Bad guy technology:   Simple yet effective.  Most communication is by cell and satellite phones and also by email on laptops.  They use handheld GPS units for navigation and "Google Earth" for overhead views of our positions. Their weapons are good, if not fancy, and prevalent.  Their explosives and bomb technology is TOP OF THE LINE.  Night vision is rare.  They are very careless with their equipment and the GPS units and laptops are treasure troves of Intel when captured.  

Who are the bad guys?  These are mostly "foreigners", non-Afghan Arab Jihadists from all over the Muslim world (and Europe ).  Some are virtually untrained young Jihadists that often end up as suicide bombers or in various "sacrifice squads".  Most, however, are hard core terrorists from all the usual suspects (Al Qaeda, Hezbollah, Hamas etc.).  These are the guys running around murdering civilians en masse and cutting heads off. 

The Chechens (many of whom are Caucasian) are supposedly the most ruthless and the best fighters.  They have been fighting the Russians for years. The terrorists have been very adept at infiltrating the Afghan local govt.'s, the police forces and the Army.  They have had a spy and agitator network there since the Iran-Iraq war in the early 80's. 

Bad Guy Tactics:   When they are engaged on an infantry leve,l they get their asses kicked every time!  Brave, but stupid.  Suicidal Banzai-type charges were very common earlier in the war and still occur.  They will literally sacrifice 8-10 man teams in suicide squads by sending them screaming and firing AK's and RPG's directly at our bases just to probe the defenses.  They get mowed down like grass every time (see the M2 and M240 above). Jordan 's base was hit like this often.  When engaged, they have a tendency to flee to the same building, probably for what they think will be a glorious last stand.  Instead, we call in air and that's the end of that more often than not.  These hole-ups are referred to as Alpha Whiskey Romeo's (Allah's Waiting Room).  

We have the laser guided ground-air thing down to a science.  The fast mover's, mostly Marine F-18's, are taking an ever increasing toll on the enemy.  When caught out in the open, the helicopter gunships and AC-130 Spectre Gunships cut them to ribbons with cannon and rocket fire, especially at night.  Interestingly, artillery is hardly used at all. 

Fun facts:   The enemy death toll is supposedly between 45-50 thousand.  That is why we're seeing less and less infantry attacks and more IED, suicide bomber sh-t.  The new strategy is just simple attrition.  The insurgent tactic most frustrating is their use of civilian non-combatants as cover.  They know we do all we can to avoid civilian casualties and therefore schools, hospitals and especially Mosques are locations where they meet, stage for attacks, cache weapons, and ammo and flee to when engaged.  They have absolutely no regard whatsoever for inflicting civilian casualties.  They will terrorize locals and murder without hesitation anyone believed to be sympathetic to the Americans.  Kidnapping of family members, especially children, is common to influence people they are trying to influence but can't reach, such as local govt. officials, clerics, tribal leaders, etc.. The first thing our guys are told is "don't get captured".  They know that if captured they will be tortured and beheaded on the internet. They openly offer bounties for anyone who brings in a live American serviceman.  This motivates the criminal element who otherwise don't give a sh-t about the war.  A lot of the beheading victims were actually kidnapped by common criminals and sold to them.  As such, for our guys, every fight is to the death.  Surrender is not an option.  The Afghani's are a mixed bag. Some fight well; others aren't worth a damn.  Most do okay with American support.  

Finding leaders is hard, but they are getting better.  Many Afghani's were galvanized and the caliber of recruits in the Army and the police forces went right up, along with their motivation.  It also led to an exponential increase in good intel because the Afghani's are sick of the insurgent attacks against civilians.  

Morale:   According to Jordan , morale among our guys is very high.  They not only believe that they are winning, but that they are winning decisively.  They are stunned and dismayed by what they see in the American press, whom they almost universally view as against them.  The embedded reporters are despised and distrusted.  They are inflicting casualties at a rate of 20-1 and then see sh-t like "Are we losing in Iraq " on TV and the print media.  For the most part, they are satisfied with their equipment, food, and leadership.  Bottom line though, and they all say this, is that there are not enough guys there to drive the final stake through the heart of the insurgency, primarily because there aren't enough troops in-theater to shut down the borders with Afghanisan and Pakistan.  The Iranians and the Syrians just can't stand the thought of Afganistan being an American ally (with, of course, permanent US bases there).  

Anyway, that's it, hope you found it interesting.  












the 6x6 vehicles are rated at 5.6 tonne, however they have been known to operate in excess of 8 tonne, hence why they sometimes break cv's

Shooting a vehicle: hit the radiator, oil tank, water cooling system, tyres, driver, overall engine block (without being specific you can deal a lot of damage)


CQB:
What Killed The Warrior??? 

...

...

...

Hasitation!


M107 tracers: yeah, what would be the use. Unless you were in support of other units and you wanted to point out a target to them. But if you were out there on your own, I wouldn't see the point. Plus, like you said, it would give you away. You're spotter doesn't need a tracer to talk you on.

The Mk.262 round has garnered attention not only for its improved performance at extended ranges and superior barrier penetration, but also for its greater terminal effectiveness over a broad engagement envelope therefore is used by Law Enforcement too.


Comms: Number 'Up' means the amount. 2 UP being 2 people - enemy up meaning two enemy. Vehicle, 2 UP, front seats - a vehicle with two people in the front seats.


Bullet vs steel impact, when it doesn't penetrate: All of Newton's Laws at work here. The bullet, in motion, hits the steel, an external force, causing the bullet to change motion (1st? Law). The bullet has incredible force, but little mass compared to the steel, so it liquefies (2nd Law). The steel pushes on the bullet with the same force the bullet had on it, but since the steel is more massive, it clearly won (3rd Law).

The bullet melts because its energy can't pass through the steel, so it turns to heat and melts the lead.

at firing the bullet dough to high pressure when being blown out of the cult it reaches a tempature of 4000 degree or more and become penetrateable for wathever it reaches in this mather of case the bullet hits a steel which cannot be penetrated , because the bullet is at high tempature the moleculs become free of eachother and are easy to leave eachother upon hitting in the steel :) and looks? like liquid ;)
because of its energy... similiar things happen when grinding... grinded metal is ripped from? the base material with so much energy, that the shreds are almost liquid (that's why they glow bright... seen as sparks)
 the energy? comes from inertia



Rob Maylor (SAS Sniper) Interview extracts:
Use the ground/terrain to your advantage, use the foilage to cover/screen your movement and use dead ground like creek lines and ground people can't see, use that to get into tactical positions.
Camouflage and concealment is a big part of being a sniper

Use all the knooks and crannies, especially in open terrain. Not moving throughout the day is a good idea in places like A'ghan but the elements will effect you during the night.
Finding good firing positions or concealed positions is very hard in those conditions.

The role is to seek and destroy the enemy but the biggest part is protection for other elements and observation and detection.
They use the high ground to cover movement across high risk terrain like urban terrain and open ground.

SASR tasked with: neutralising HVT/MVT's, getting rid of Taliban leaders - a lot of that relies on heavy intelligence. You might react fastly (direct action) via a tip-off, but most of the time those kinds of missions are very planned out.
Infiltration can mix from extreme walks in to short helicopter riders in direct action.

Lock down the area, stop everyone from moving - both in and out via block off teams and within the target area, find out who is bad and who isn't and stop any runners.
'Lock it down' - keeping everyone down, checking everyone, covering escape and entry routes.

Usually civilians in a group with a radio would be a leader or co-ordinator of some kind, definately a target and most probably enemy.
If you treat them as a target, not a human being, psychologically it is better. You know they are bad and what they will do in the future, take them out.

Firing solution for snipers - wind, range, elevation, temperature & humidity. The firing solution is mainly range and windage, as shots normally need to be taken quickly - with other things added in for adjustments. Other elements may be added in to count for other factors like penetration ability, wounding/killing ability (wound and terminal ballistics) among many other different factors depending on how accurate you want to be - remember a sniper can be used to suppress the enemy as well, it isn't all the one shot one kill attitude.


The round loses velocity (depending on size of calibre) at larger ranges, around 1000m, so sometimes the enemy know they've been shot at but can't locate a target - a good tip if you enjoy long-range shooting.

Field sketching enables you to draw an accurate account of the ground your looking and that enables you to plan key ranges and key targets.
Some patrols can go on for months - patrols vary and it depends on the task you get given.

Quality control where it is at for sniping - running with an extremely accurate round with all it's ballistic information either; 1) in your head, 2) on a notepad/rangecard 3) on a PDA
Accquiring the target as a sniper takes a little bit of time.

When in a battle, make sure you get someone protecting vitals like the JTAC, Radiomen, Interperators, Medic, Leader and 2IC. Sometimes there are more vital roles say AT gunners when a APC is engaging you or an MG when there is enemy behind cover you can suppress.
They are essential lifelines in battle. Sometimes people get too wrapped up in their role to release what is happening around them - situational awareness is a must.


Sometimes life vests don't work due to water pressure not allowing it to inflate - especially in crashes like aircraft crashes into water.



When you engage an APC or Tank - IRL the driver points the nose ( or whatever remaining armor is strongest ) at the biggest perceived threat, not necessarily what the gun is aimed at.







AAW LAYOUT:
RAR Inf. Rifleman
Weapon: F88 Steyr/Weapon Sight Varients

RAR Inf. Gunner 
Weapon: F89 Minimi

RAR Inf. Grenadier
Weapon: F88 Steyr/Weapon Sight Varients Grenade Launcher Attachment 

RAR Inf. Heavy Gunner
Weapon: Mag 58

RAR Inf. Medic
Weapon: F88 Steyr/Weapon Sight Varients

RAR Inf. AT 
Weapon: F88 Steyr/Weapon Sight Varients - Carl Gustav/66mm LAW

RAR Inf. Sniper
Weapon: SR98 - AW50F - Blaser Tactical 2 (.338)
 
 


RAR Cdo. Rifleman
Weapon: M4A5 Carbine/Weapon Sight Varients 

RAR Cdo. Gunner
Weapon: MinimiPara/Weapon Sight Varients 

RAR Cdo. Grenadier
Weapon: M4A5/203/Weapon Sight Varients 

RAR Cdo. AT 
Weapon: M4A5/Weapon Sight Varients - Javelin 

RAR Cdo. Heavy Gunner
Weapon: Mag 58 

RAR Cdo. Sniper
Weapon: MK11 - SR98 - AW50F 

RAR Cdo. Demolitions
Weapon: M4MK/Weapon Sight Varients - Satchel Charges - Claymores 

RAR Cdo. Recon
Weapon: M4A5SD/Weapon Sight Varients
 


SASR Trooper 
Weapon: M4A5 Carbine/Weapon Sight Varients 

SASR Gunner
Weapon: MinimiPara/Weapon Sight Varients 

SASR Grenadier 
Weapon: M4A5/203/Weapon Sight Varients 

SASR AT 
Weapon: M4A5/Weapon Sight Varients - Javelin 

SASR Heavy Gunner 
Weapon: Mag 58 

SASR Sniper 
Weapon: MK11 - SR98 - Blaser Tactical 2 (.338) - AW50F 

SASR Demolitions 
Weapon: M4MK/Weapon Sight Varients - Satchel Charges - Claymores 

SASR Recon
Weapon: M4A5SD/Weapon Sight Varients SD
 


Tactical Assault Group - Operator 
Weapon: Mp5/Mp5K/M4a5 - USP 

Tactical Assault Group - Breacher 
Weapon: Mp5 - Breaching Charges - USP 
 


ADF Crew Member 
Weapon: F88 Steyr Carbine

ADF Driver
Weapon: F88 Steyr Carbine 

ADF Pilot
Weapon: 9mm Browning 
 


comms: uncon means unconscious
line can also be called extended file formation

leaf sight aka 203 sight is left shift + number 2
for resting left shift + " (quotations) for sitting, crouch is next, next is standing and last is prone as you have a lot of gear on your body
echelon left - look at your keyboard, see the slash, that is the formation - left and behind  each man so contact front, lead man doesnt move, everyone pushes into line
arrowhead is squad level supposed to fireteam wedge
staggered column by team - staggered column but each set, left is one group, right is another, left behind that is another (each member is offset by 25m)

'contact left' is an executive command for everyone - when we get shot at, get in a line formation
G stands for Group e.g. 'Alpha team!.. contact front'
R stands for Range e.g. 'Alpha team! contact front, 100m'
I stands for indication, as in bearing other methods like references 'Alpha team! contact front, 100m, bearing 150'
T stands for target, description 'Alpha team! contact front, 100m, bearing 150, 2x enemy riflemen'

After that the guys who see it say 'Got it' 'See it' or something
If you don't then communicate that too, 'I don't see it'

transition to contact is moving from one formation to form a line

Mission Commander, Patrol Command, Commanding Officer (CO)

Order of Aid - wounded? then keep engaging enemy, move to cover, heal yourself
Realoding - reload in cover

'Squad fire' - all squads fire.
'Check fire' means hold fire to check if its hit. Confirm it.

Hasty fire control order - slow fire, rapid fire, suppressive fire

LMG - 5 to 8 round bursts
AT guy - DM at a low level, taking his time taking shots, reports 'ON' when locked on the target, TL gives command to fire, before he does this he says stand by... fire!

arcs of fire - checking arcs of fire, not muzzle sweeping

FTL allocates fire and is basically a babysitter

Supressing a round doesnt make the bullet sub sonic is just reduces the muzzle velocity, and the effective range of that weapon is 1850. giving altitude of 6000 asl and temperature of 100F a 750 gr AMAX at 2700 fps or even 2600 fps will be supersonic well over 2000 meters


medic: becareful of using quick clot type wound dressing.so far their a warning of heart failure or blood clots in the veins.make sure that you get enough proper training from a medical professional (paramedic or trauma doctor)before you use it.

i am superstitious... my bloodgroup was in my boots, my helmet, and in my uniform. i know some SAS guys who have a tattoo with their bloodgroup in their chest, or arm.


Types of Fire: Point fire, Area fire, Suppressive fire etc.

Bullet types: Full metal jacket, Hollow point etc.


Shooting positions: Standing, sitting, prone etc.


Ready positions: High and low ready etc.


Battle Drills:

Reaction to Contact/Enemy Fire

Breaking Contact/Withdrawing


Conducting an Ambush:

Planned

Hasty

etc.



Reaction to Ambush:

Near

Far



Reaction to Sniper:

Methods of judging distances


Travelling Overwatch:

Types of sights



Ironsights:

Fixed


Adjustable




Optics:

Magnified


Unmagnified






Path of Least Resistance


Entry Methods:

Criss Cross


Button Hook


Hook Cross/Combined/Mixed/Modified


etc




Hi-Lo/Dynamic Corner Clear


Shooting Techniques:

Double Tap

Bump Fire

Mozambique/Failure Drill


Controlled Burst


etc


Load Bearers and Bags such as ALICE and MOLLE


Reloading:

Dry

Tactical

Administrative


Break Contact in CQB?
I think that all CQB is is a "range of combat". In strict military terms (US), CQB doesn't even necessarily mean Urban Combat. That is called MOUT. Once the battle becomes "hand to hand" range so to speak you are in CQB. As to tactics/drills/techniques such as breaking contact drill, I don't see why they couldn't be applied, except at CQB ranges you tend to become so intermingled with the enemy that organized drill like that becomes very difficult if not impossible. Not to mention the blue on blue risk. 

Well I think that when you compare the hit rate in CQB to outdoor combat they are very different.

From what I know, because the ranges are much shorter (most of the time) most rounds fired will connect with the enemy, assuming the operator is trained.



Now because of this I have come to think that if you are entering a room or travelling down a hallway and you make contact with the enemy, one of you are going to live and the other will die because of the likelyhood of the rounds hitting its mark.

When you are in this situation there is no escaping or buying time.

While the purpose of a battle drill is to save time, it still needs to time be executed but in the situations that I put up it seems even battle drills will not have enough time to be initiated.  
 
CT: small things like looking at the holster when holstering your pistol will get you in trouble, you have to refine these points. 



6.8mm: Im a fan of the 6.8 SPC myself, being convinced through certain data points rather than actual use. I'm also a fan of heavier bullets as opposed to lighter ones, as there is good reason to believe that more momentum = greater penetration through things such as bone and the like.
Also excellent point about bullet config! soft point hollow point etc. early "poison" bullet had PLASTIC tips! hard to find on xrays and guaranteed to harbor bacteria! 

"MK318 MOD 0? enhanced 5.56mm ammunition. At 62 grains, they weigh about the same as most NATO rounds, have a typical lead core with a solid copper shank and are considered a variation of Federal Cartridge Co.’s Federal Trophy Bonded Bear Claw round, which was developed for big-game hunting and is touted in a company news release for its ability to crush bone".

CQB: The OODA loop (for observe, orient, decide, and act)

And as we know, momentum is force over time. And force is mass x velocity, in equal parts.

115gr 9mm FMJ standard pistol velocity = 1,200fps

230gr .45 FMJ = ~900 fps

200%? mass at only 25% velocity loss.


ct:intelligence gathering, nuclear, biological, chemical, radiological and explosive incident reaction and lethal response capabilities

mine clearing: A MICLIC is a mine-clearing line charge. The MICLIC is a rocket projected explosive line charge which provides a "close-in" breaching capability for maneuver forces. It is effective against conventionally fused mines and, when detonated, it provides a lane 8 meters by 100 meters. 

The MICLIC system consists of an M353 3-1/2 ton or M200A1 2-1/2 ton trailer (or M200 tracked trailer) chassis, a More.. launcher assembly, an M147 firing kit, an M58A3 line charge and a 5-inch MK22 Mod 4 rocket. The line charge is 350 feet long and contains 5 pounds per linear foot of composition C-4 explosive. 

sweep the target: used in VIP and CQB, shoot from left to right or right to left spraying accurate as possible bursts or full-auto, also used for multiple targets - to get as many rounds down range to take out at least one




WOUND BALLISTICS
WOUND BALLISTICS


wound ballistics: penetrate 12-18 inches and no matter what angle the bullet strikes at, it will penetrate enough to hit vital organs within the human body - you look for expansion of at least one and a half times of the original diameter of the bullet and a weight retention of 100% or as close to it to provide enough mass for the bullet to reach organs
when it comes to wound ballistics, you can know it all, every ammo type and all the data - but shot placement is the most important strategy

You want expansion of at least double the diameter of the bullet. You often get expansion over the diameter, sometimes double the diameter and more.

Wound ballistics experts measure the minimal and maximum expansion, then they weigh the bullet. Bullets rarely expand symmetrically with one or two other peddles taking a different pass, the bullet may tumble which causes uneven drag on the peddles.
You remove as much of the geletin off the peddles when the bullet has expanded. Peddles are when the bullet expands, the parts of it that flare out.

Good bullets retain maximum rate, penetration a good depth and expand a lot within the gel.

the first 10 to 12 inches of travel in tissue is where you want to cause a lot of damage also, to maximise tissue damage



what you are looking for in wound ballistics:
1# Penetration of around 12 inches of more
Expansion of peddles and bullet itself - they do this by measuring the bullet, how far it spreads out
Retention of close to 100% or more, sometimes more as the peddles spread out and add more weight - they do this via measuring the bullet and weighing it


If you hit the gel block low on centre, the temp cavity

temp cavity - bullet enters gel and throws tissue out radially from the path of the bullet, temp cavity - it expands then milliseconds later snaps back and leaves a perm wound track - quite like a shockwave.
when the gel blocks jump up - that is temp cavity - the gel blocks are only around 20 pounds, not very heavy, the jumping is just the temp cavity, humans do not fly back when hit


wound ballistics, heavy clothing, mimicing 7 layers of material aka heavy winter clothing:
Heavy clothing is often retained inside the hollow cavity. You often get DEEPER penetration through heavy clothing and barrier materials, simply because it wouldn't expand as much as it did in bare geletin - its called retarded expansion

Decades ago HP hollow points sometimes failed on clothing, it would punch out a section of clothing and plug the HP of the bullet, thereby slowing down or eliminating expansion of the bullet 
modern bullet, high quality bullets will still expand, hence the enhanced penetration, they will still expand - sometimes maybe a little bit less than bare gel but they'll do similar jobs

spiraling: bullet expands, peddles deploy, bullet is still spinning from coming out the barrel
neck length/throat: distance travelled in the target before it fully expands


You are looking to do maximum damage on the way to vitals, vitals to shut down the vitals, distrubition, bleeding, shock and lowered blood pressure - that will stop the suspect.
Hydraulic/Hydrostatic Force: HP needs water for good expansion, HP fills up with tissue matter/water which causes force to make the peddles expand and cause the flower-like shape. We are made up of 90%+ water, they use water in ballistic gel to simulate this too.




wound ballistics test - two pieces of sheet rock, 3 and a half inches apart, represents walls, interior walls in a house, rearmost barrier 18 inches from gel block, gel block has a layor of t-shirt/shirt material around it, the muzzle of the pistol is 10 ft from the front of the first barrier:
federal 45 calibre bullet 230grain+p, penetrated 13.5inches, 100% weight retention

sometimes the tests retain sheet rock because each time a HP passes a barrier, it retains a portion of that barrier inside the hollow cavity - that adds weight to the bullet - its a natural thing, its common
plywood has a big amount of glue and material in the different sheets of wood that sometimes plug up the hollow point of the bullet and stop expansion

wound ballistics test, 20 gauge galvanized steel, 2 panels, 3 inches apart to represent weakest part of a car door:
through steel bullets have strange ballstics and perform quite well
because it does not have the wide profile of an expanded hollow point there is less resistance in the gel which allows the bullet to penetrate deeper
sometimes when defeating the barrier, it brings through some material - in the steel test, it took through a disk of steel with it


.45 - 23 inches penetration through steel! hollow point pushed shut and carried some t-shirt material and expansion was almost 0
non-bonded or bonded bullets, any design, it normally does the same thing
rifle bullets travel at higher velocity and most times self-destructs under these conditions


bullet normally collapses in upon it self and causes nail heading, acting like a FMJ
nail heading - a bullet penetrating like a full metal jacket



laminated windshield glass, gel 18 inches behind glass, light clothing over gel:
windshield glass at 45 degree angle and 15 degree offset, this mimics an officer firing at the driver of a vehicle from standing at the front quarter panel of the vehicle
glass is so hard it usually cuts the bullet to pieces, it is probably the toughest factor in terminal ballistics in an urban area

test - maintained mass - 89%, penetrated 12 inches, went almost in a straight line, slight deflection downwards which would be into the vehicles driver seat
the conventional designed bullet, no bonding technology - the core and the jacket only - they must stay together, if you lose the jacket you lose a lot of mass and penetration in the process
the core material in the bonded bullet, was hanging onto the peddles of the lead
bonding process, the jacket and core are fused together so they dont come apart when going through heavy material such as glass, 81% weight retention in the bonded bullet



[12:38:36 PM] Griff: "Remembering that I am not a doctor, nor even a trained observer, from first hand experience a .50 BMG round (M33 ball IIRC) plows through the human torso at a range of ~ 7 metres when fired from an M2HB. Subject was ~100 kg prior to impact, ~70 kg afterward. "



wound ballistics, AR-15 PLATFORM:
Police - there is a big fear of over-penetration, it is a misconception because a bullet is selected that was fragile on design which causes a massive service wound but shallow penetration.
You can have a bullet on target that is travelling at 3,000 ft p/s and only penetrates 5 inches - this is not guarantee'ing incapatitation. For that you have to have shock and reach the vitals.
Police do not try to kill, they try to stop the target doing what they are doing.

The human body doesn't change, you need good penetration, weight retention and expansion.
Poly tipped bullets normally completely come apart - good for not over penetrating (shallow penetration) and causing a lot of damage, but may not incapacitate, actually it probably won't - especially if trying to penetrate an object. Basically self-destruct. Sometimes there is little shards of bullet left within the person.
the less it penetrates, the less trauma to the body


flux bonded bullet - core inserted into a thick skinned jacket and hand inject flux into the jacket and bake the two together - thereby weilding them together


thin skin and thick skin jackets - talk about them


rifle ammo wounds differently to pistol because of velocity, the bullet upsets aka expanding, it expands the tissue past the elastic limits of the tissue and starts actually TEARING tissue (detached muscles). You have an additional wounding effect with rifle ammunition.
bullets dont just punch through, they expand or break into pieces, or whatever, there is many things a bullet can do


desired penetration, massive trauma, bullet intergrity, defeating barriers but not over penetrating - you can do all this by choosing the correct bullet, LE thought that rifle calibers would over penetrate all the time, but it was the bullet they used

damage is done to projectiles due to hardness of material when it tries to penetrate



domned bullet - shaped like a dome after testing, not as much expansion as a flower-like shape, the peddles aren't sticking out - at least not as far - probably because it doesn't retain as much weight

frangible bullets are weak in terms of penetration, they break apart





Animal/Hunting loads will act the way they do on animals but totally different on gel and humans. That is a misconception - like deer taking a .50 cal and still running 30 feet, humans are different from deer and will react differently - also all situations are different though similar, nothing will happen exactly the same!




batteries on vehicles: There are several vehicles with auxiliary power supply. 
Most of the tanks ingame use battery power to turn the turret and supply necessary systems.

T34-85 needs the engine to be turned on, afair. Else the crew uses handcranks to turn the turret and elevate the gun (takes a whil though).





shooting underwater: the part needed is called "Maritime Cups" they are replacement cups that hold the spring on the firing pin. it allows water to pass through the firing channel so the gun will function.

this is;

EXTREMELY dangerous

and should only be done by people trained to shoot underwater.

FMJ ammo only, sealed primers.

WEAR EAR PROTECTION. gunshots in water are LOUDER and can cause serious ear injury

also, projectile direction is unknown




Quartering shots: Meaning the thing that was shot was angled towards me.

jav:
1. You need to have Javelin tube (former weapon that required missile, but now is round itself) and new ACE_Javelin_CLU item that occupies binocular slot.
2. You should be able then to assembly Javelin tube with CLU - to do so, select Javelin tube and wait until "reload" action appear. This is simply the same as You do with regular disposable launchers.
3. Select mode (Direct or Top-Attack), acquire target, shoot...
4. Then select another weapon to drop empty Javelin tube on the ground.
5. Now You should be left with CLU that can be used as TI device, if You can afford carrying 6.4 kg "binocular" around.

translators: nicknamed terps
Well, that's the measure of a good translator. A good translator will tell you what the speaker is meaning, not what he's saying, because those can be two different things when you translate something.

explosives: command det, controlled det, timed det

sniping urban: urban area = buildings cut out wind, places for wind are crossroads and deserted areas of land
urban: counter-ambush, counter-roadblock skills



dont use left-right fire hand? Its very important for corners... Why hold the second man his gun in low ready in a stack? In this type of corridor the VEE is not a best choise i think  Why they use dinamic movements without a FB (never go to the room, before the BOOM)?

depends on teh size of teh room, and the size of teh clearing unit. 
you can "leapfrog" with all sized elements in any environment, also known in the open as bounding and bounding overwatch. inside of structures you need to consider your personnel and teh size of the room. 3 men work better than 2 and with 4 men you can add rear security and extra firepower to get deeper into the room to cover oblique redzones. 
2 men are hard pressed to clear corners first and then to turn on teh immediate threat to the front, but as mentioned before, that is dictated by the size of teh room and the size of clearing unit available. 
Hungary is right about pretty much everything he said. 
as well, urban conflict is categorized by being resource intensive (especially grenades) but then on teh small unit level you need to consider teh overpenetration, structural damage, civilian dimension, and other hazards relating to different types of grenade use during operations. 
my recommendation for you gaming thing, would be to use teh 3 man stack at the point of entry/ breach, NOT to waste time to "prep the objective room" with any grenade or device, and to ues 1 man to take the well defined "path of least resistance" and him and 2 man clear corners while 3 man gets his muzzle in teh room and begins engaging, suppressing, and spraying all known or suspected enemy to the immediate front of the door from doorway to deep in opposing room corners while sidestepping fatal funnel, secondary considerations after this manuever should be not flagging redzones into next rooms and clearing behind any furniture or obstacles within room. 
everybody thinks flashbangs are real cool, you can beat em with the "plug and shut" method of plugging your ears and shutting your eyes, grenades can be thrown back, and the enemy can rush you while your weapon is down after you have engaged the door and thrown the grenade.(or before) and again, thats if you dont waste your entire team due to overpenetration or causing teh building to collapse on top of you. 
for the game and occaisionally in real life you can use a "rolling stack" of 2,3,or 4 men to rapidly enter the next room once initial room has been cleared, or quickly reload your weapons, and then restack and roll straight into the next room as fast as possible to maintain operational momentum and to prevent occupying enemy forces from mounting a counterattack or digging in too deep in the defense of the next room in you structure. 
by technical definition room clearing operations have an acceptable 50% casualty rate to still be termed as a success, resource and casualty intensive, they arent something to play around with. if you have the advantage of a blueprint or a map of the internal building layout and a plan of assault then your 2 steps ahead. i refer you back to the 7 P's of operations 
Proper Prior Planning Prevents Piss Poor Performance









The M-4 is also reputed to have an advantage over the Steyr
in riverine and maritime environments due to its low technology bolt and
gas system which does not suffer from hydraulic seizure if fired full of
water
For urban CQB and hostage situations, the latest production models
of the venerable Heckler and Koch MP-5 family of machine pistols were
issued. The MP-5 family is now a little long in the tooth, but it is still the
preferred CQB weapon with every major Special Operations force.
The H&Ks are favoured because the pistol rounds they fire are
designed not to exit the body of the target, making it a far safer weapon
to use particularly in hostage situations or where bullets could pass through
walls or floors to injure fellow TAG members or innocent bystanders
caught up in the action.
The latest generation 9mm pistols which come with a complete range
of CQB accessories are also on issue for TAG Operators. Remington 870
12 gauge riotguns add a solid sledgehammer to the 9mm pistols and SMGs.
TAG load bearing equipment including specialist combat vests
customised to carry a range of grenades, breaking tools and plenty of
spare mags are standard issue. Pistols and spare mags are slung on thigh
A TAG-East Commando takes a breaking tool to a window during Method of Entry demonstrations at the Holsworthy complex.
down holsters to allow instant access in every scenario.
Because CQB is rich in gas and explosive charges, the
Operators wear special suits designed to protect the skin from
chemicals and the burning flash from the entry explosives and
stun grenades used to pacify terrorist targets.

CQB: Trailers are the guys waiting to come in the room as back-up, normally consisting of at least one trailer being a medic for a quick medevac out of the room. They are the guys who help clear the room if you need it, if a man is down or injured.
CQB Comms: '1 enemy KIA, 1 civilian wounded' shout the quick AAR before you come out the room. When coming out the room inform your team mates that you are, incase of friendly fire, also inform them of when you need them in the room by shouting 'trailers' or 'trailers come in'.
'Door right' 'Door left' 'Multi-door Room, trailers move in left'
Name walls colours, 4 walls to each room, say 12 o clock is white ect. Then when you move in you can say WHITE, RED CLEAR. Stack on White.
'Door right, hallway clear!'

In CQB you must check and confirm a KIA. You must request security, by simply shouting 'Assist' or 'Security' and a team mate will cover the body as you check it - normally you prod the eye or touch with a foot, if you aren't sure then why not give them a couple more.
Make sure while doing this that you also clear the weapons from the enemy before you touch them, if the enemies finger is on the trigger then shoot.

If you have civilians (or the enemy) in your way when you move into a room, then push them out the way. If there is not one behind them and you observe the rooms layout and construction then you can decide if it is better to shoot rather than push. You determine the construction and layout during the planning phase so this should all be in your head before you even enter the room, you don't seriously think about ALL that as you enter.

You do not have to open up the whole door before you chuck the flashbang, you are opening yourself up to whatever is behind that door. Open it up enough to fit your hand in and chuck it in.

the first man in is responsible for the corner threat every time. Teamwork and repetition make this work, trusting your buddy to get the second threat before he? gets you.

Two operator team, front-back with the team going down a hallway. Front operator is doing frontal coverage, rear operator has their back to the back of the front operator providing rear cover. Team comes upon a door and the handle is within reach of the front operator (in other words...operator does not have to reach across the door to engage the door knob). Lead operator signals the rear cover person and engages the door knob, opens the door dynamically and provides engagement and/or cover (depending on the situation). Rear operator then moves into position on the other side of the now open doorway(the side away from the lead operator). At this time, team begin their movements, depending on what they decided and the circumstances faced with. 

If the front operator would comes across the entry, and found that the door handle was not in immediate reach when the team came upon the door, the team would then move beyond the door, with the rear operator becoming the person to engage the door & door knob, when the knob became within an easy reach of the rear operator. At that time, the same tactics would occur. 

And this continues down the hallway until the entire area is cleared

two man team against a well trained suspect... well, its not a combat. its surviving... especially in the hallway type scenario. if you dont need an "asscover" your chance is little bit better. Three basic rules (in our trainings we start with this three): 1., one man always in front cover in the hallway when the team in the halway 2., use the doors like a corner (dynamic open, stay cover, pieing, quick peek, and like this...) and forget the fatal funel if its posible. 3., communication. contact. always.

I actually like the fact that they often take a knee when halted. Bullets go through walls very easily and taking a knee is great target minimization.

But the most felt recoil is when the slide or bolt travels the full length and stops (to return, and? chamber another round) That transfers the movement energy of the bolt or slide to the frame of the firearm? and into the hand and arms of the shooter. In pistols it goes to the wrist, which tilts easily. On rifles it goes to the stock to the shoulder, that is not as flexible as the wrist, thus allowing for better control.









quotes:
Bravery is being the only one who knows you're afraid. 
- David Hackworth

 your attack is going well your walking into an ambush
-Infantry journal

When the pin is pulled, the grenade is not our friend
-USMC

If the enemy are in range so are you 
-Infantry Journal

If you see a bomb technician running, follow him
-USAF Ammo Troop

Five second fuses only last three seconds.
- Infantry Journal

If you don't stand behind our Troops, feel free to Stand in front of them." 
- Unknown





Ricochet:
they are bouncing off the ground. Because of their spin, some bullets curve as they bounce off the ground.? Its interesting to see some of them make wide arcs as they go off in the distance.





"Those that speak do not know, and those who know do not speak" - Lao Tzu - Dao Te Ching


The slow down effect is an optical illusion. When firing tracer rounds they appear to slow down dramatically; however, when tracer rounds are coming at you they appear to speed up.



entry - vehicle entry, bursting down the door, used on double doors like mansions in iraq and palaces

Non-hostile compromise - someone has compromised you but not engaged, say a civilian neighbour telling the bad guys
hostile compromise - enemy has seen and engaged or called in support ect


sniper cordon - multiple sniper teams, covering all arcs of the threat and entrances/exits
sniping lane - narrow/wide, street level ect

CT: negotiators (analyctic survival video and others), shoot or wait, assault or wait (now vs 10mins ago or 10mins later)
assault plan: LAPD SWAT vid


SAS teams are on the ground in Libya with orders to pinpoint and destroy Colonel Gaddafi’s weapons.

Dozens of the crack troops have been operating behind enemy lines to identify targets for bombing raids.

Highly-trained units, known as ‘Smash’ teams for their prowess and destructive ability, have carried out secret reconnaissance missions to provide up-to-date information on the Libyan armed forces.

It is understood the soldiers have reported the location of airfields, supply routes, radar stations and Libya’s anti-aircraft defence batteries.

‘You want to have men on the ground doing laser targeting and reconnaissance, gathering intelligence about the situation and updating the target list.

‘The other point is that if one of our planes gets shot down you have to send people in to get them out.’

These troops on the ground use a process called ‘painting a target’ to pinpoint a site to be attacked. A laser beam from a portable device is bounced off a building or military installation from a few hundred yards.


Two special forces units, nicknamed “Smash” teams for their destructive ability, are hunting Colonel Gaddafi’s long-range surface-to-air missile ­systems, which could launch attacks on jets or commercial airliners.

The two SAS units, joined by ­signallers, engineers and medics, are simultaneously establishing positions on the ground in case any Western jets are downed during an air attack.

Military intelligence analysts ­believe the Libyans have only four main SAM 5 missile systems. When they are switched on, they can be identified by electronic counter-measures. But the long-range missiles are likely to have been hidden several weeks ago, ­possibly in aircraft bunkers.

The Com got in along with arms and passports for seven different countries that just need a photo inserted to look real. 
“This is a highly prized piece of equipment and very, very useful,” said a security aide. 


“It is for MI6 agents in Libya and extremely valuable to the mission, hence it was given elite protection. 


“The plan is to help set up a group to help the rebels get Gaddafi out. 


“They took in weapons and the passports for assets who want to get out of the country.” 

The Com is hacker proof and can turn spoken or typed messages into code and be transmitted in just one second. It comes in a 2ft by 3ft metal box for added protection. 

British special forces in Afghanistan have intercepted an Iranian shipment of rockets to the Taliban that would have allowed them to double the range of their attacks, western diplomats have said.

The rockets were discovered after an intelligence tip-off on 5 February when British special forces and Afghan troops stopped a convoy in Nimruz province, in the south-west of Afghanistan bordering Iran and Pakistan, the officials said. A shoot-out involving the special forces left several Taliban fighters dead.

The vehicles were found to be carrying 48 122mm rockets, which western sources described as "substantial weapons" with a range of more than 12 miles. A diplomat with knowledge of the arms shipment said that was double the range of the usual Taliban weapons.





IED's - domino effect, one blows up after the other or sets off the fuse and blows up a minute later, the US army give a 2 minute 'soak period' for this. The IED array is typically set up for radio- or wire-command detonation. 
These IED arrays typically comprise three to five medium-caliber (100 mm plus) artillery, mortar, or tank projectiles and, in some cases, multiple-rocket-launcher rocket warheads buried several meters apart in the center of the road or alongside the road. The shells are primed with blasting caps and connected with detonating cord or electric wire leading to a detonator.

Mitigating The Effects of "Daisy Chain" IEDS

¦Since the lethal area of buried "daisy chain" IEDs typically extends for several tens of meters, maintaining maximum tactically acceptable vehicle spacing can ensure that, at most, only a single vehicle is caught in the lethal area of the IED. 
¦Drivers must be especially vigilant at minor road obstacles such as river fords, rough patches, and washouts where vehicles in a column often bunch up. Leaders and drivers must be adept at spotting dangerous areas and chokepoints where ambush is more likely as well as indicators of a daisy chain IED ambush. 
¦These include successive, regularly spaced patches of recently disturbed soil in the middle or to the side of the road; stretches of roadside vegetation or piles of debris that seem out of place; or salvageable metal or wood left by the side of the road. 
¦Normal counter-ambush techniques, such as varying vehicle speeds while in convoy and, if attacked, refusing to stop in an ambush zone are also valuable. 
¦Like any other potential mine ambush, vehicle crews should also be wary upon entering areas where local villagers are inexplicably absent and be on the lookout for likely "kill zone markers" and suspicious movement by possible "scout" vehicles trailing or passing the convoy in either direction. 

When conducting a tactical convoy, soldiers need to: 

¦Quickly identify potential ambush sites that may coincide with locations of IED and avoid the area. 
¦Quickly move away from the IED and/or ambush kill zone. 
¦Keep a standoff distance of at least 300 meters (radio or cell phone transmission within 300 meters may cause detonation). 
¦Look for potential secondary devices in what may seem like the best possible location to occupy or along an alternate route. 
Enemy forces in Iraq have used the following TTPs when employing IEDs: 

¦Using command-detonated devices, both hardwired and radio controlled. 
¦Using mortar rounds, artillery projectiles, and other explosive-filled ordnance as the explosive device. 
¦Using locally purchased battery-powered doorbell devices to remotely initiate IEDs. 
¦Using speaker and similar type wiring to connect the explosive device to the hide position. 
¦Using hide positions that most likely have line of sight to the kill zone (whether a building or abandoned vehicle) and an easy escape route. 
¦Camouflaging IEDs in bags of various types to resemble garbage along roadways, burying these devices in the roadbed or median, placing them under the paving stones on walkways along the road, and covering them with rocks. 
¦Using decoy devices (“bait devices”) out in the open to slow or stop convoys in the kill zone of the actual device that is hidden along the route of travel. 
¦Throwing devices from the road side or from overpasses. Devices are swung down on ropes measured to ensure they strike the vehicle’s windshield. 
¦Personnel seen throwing IEDs have been males of all ages. 
¦Using the carcasses of dead animals have been used to hide IEDs. 
¦Placing the devices during darkness and detonating them between 0600 and 1200. 
Daisy-Chain Munitions
A "daisy chain" of munitions is two or more explosive devices wired together so that a single signal will detonate all the munitions at the same time. 


 
In the picture above, from Baghdad, the disabled bus (the green box in the photograph) is believed to be positioned to cause traffic to slow down and therefore increase the time the U.S. convoy or vehicles must be in the kill zone. In this example, the IED was not completed when it was discovered. The wire from the daisy chain to the detonator was missing. Notice that in this example there are several possible hide sites. The enemy could have been positioned in one of the several buildings at the top of the photograph. 

These IED arrays typically comprise three to five medium-caliber (100 mm plus) artillery, mortar, or tank projectiles and, in some cases, multiple-rocket-launcher rocket warheads buried several meters apart in the center of the road or alongside the road. The shells are primed with blasting caps and connected with detonating cord or electric wire leading to a detonator. The IED array is typically set up for radio- or wire-command detonation. 

Mitigating The Effects of "Daisy Chain" IEDS

¦Since the lethal area of buried "daisy chain" IEDs typically extends for several tens of meters, maintaining maximum tactically acceptable vehicle spacing can ensure that, at most, only a single vehicle is caught in the lethal area of the IED. 
¦Drivers must be especially vigilant at minor road obstacles such as river fords, rough patches, and washouts where vehicles in a column often bunch up. Leaders and drivers must be adept at spotting dangerous areas and chokepoints where ambush is more likely as well as indicators of a daisy chain IED ambush. 
¦These include successive, regularly spaced patches of recently disturbed soil in the middle or to the side of the road; stretches of roadside vegetation or piles of debris that seem out of place; or salvageable metal or wood left by the side of the road. 
¦Normal counter-ambush techniques, such as varying vehicle speeds while in convoy and, if attacked, refusing to stop in an ambush zone are also valuable. 
¦Like any other potential mine ambush, vehicle crews should also be wary upon entering areas where local villagers are inexplicably absent and be on the lookout for likely "kill zone markers" and suspicious movement by possible "scout" vehicles trailing or passing the convoy in either direction. 




ADD STUFF FROM ACE OVERVIEW FOR MK211 and edit it
ADD STUFF ABOUT JAMS - HOW THEY HAPPEN AND WHAT TO DO

drive by recon - drive by the suspects location and give a real-time update brief
CT: CT teams use K-9's to sniff bombs and even drugs depending where they are operating and their goals/role
Killing maze, a maze of doorways, obstacles and targets like the killing house but representing a slum-type shootout in places like Mexico, Brazil and South Africa
Tier 2 Formation - two teams, moving and bounding, covering eachother
Fatal funnel - a position where the team or an individual is at risk, normally the most riskiest fatal funnel is a place you have to go in single file like a corridor or doorway
Describing houses: type (semi-detached, detached, detached garage), threat areas, types of material, railings, colours


taking prisoners: make them sit on their hands once you search them, as you search 1 man covers the suspect
get biometric data on the suspect like fingerprints, the iris of the eye, a picture of them, age, name, place captured and what he/she was captured with ect
find a cache? write what was in it, like rpg boosters, batteries, rpg warheads and what type ect same with weapons and ammo type


mindset (BLACKHAWK DOWN DOCO):
in cqb expect someone to shoot at you and someone to BE IN THAT ROOM
then you will never be SHOCKED
in cqb - LOOK at their hands, discriminate whether they have a weapon or not - if no weapon then there is NO THREAT
once you take control of people (capture) then they are YOUR responsibility and you have to now care for them no matter what - it's part of the rules of the Geneva Convention

use distraction devices

Believe in yourself. In Somalia during Blackhawk down when the Delta Force Operatives were told that
they were NOT going to get a ride out of their in armoured vehicles or helicopters. But they were going
to have to WALK out, all they thought was 'this is going to be fun'. Nothing negative.

do not get excited when taking fire
just register it - how close are they, are they zero'ed on you, where to move, where and when to re-engage

A street is a kill zone - it channelises you and funnels you into a kill zone - if they put enough rounds down the street, they will hit you.
Two walls at either side of the street make this even more dangerous for ricochets and secondary fragments.
Move fast, like your hair is on fire, look at cover - look at what STOPS a bullet. 

Intersections
Using all your senses, looking for bullets chipping walls around you, going left to right or R to L.
Determining what kind of weapons, the volume of fire, how many rounds they have and wait to see if there is lows, how the lows are.
One of the hardest things to hit is a moving target.

Use slowing fire - you put bullets into doorways, windows, picket fences, tin huts - anywhere the enemy could be.
Slowing fire will slow them down, you shoot rounds slow and accurate - about two at a time.

ROE changes with civilians coming into an area with a lot of shooting. Civilians do not go towards fire - if they are, they are probably bad people.
They are probably coming to fight - therefore they are dealt with accordinly.
In Somalia the men were shooting from behind women, underneath their arms. The US Rangers and Delta Force Operatives shot the women to WOUND then the actual perpetrator to KILL.



add info from websites and http://www.specialoperations.com

Drills (LOOK AT RYANS PROCEDURE GUIDE FOR MORE):
2x2x2 (shoot 3 targets with doubletaps)
1-5 (1 shot, 2shots - all the way to five over five different targets)
weak hand reload
strong hand reload
strong/weak hand only
combat reload
walk-back drill
all these drills mixed with malfunctions
all these drills with transitions and drawing the pistol
El Prez drill - turn around, double tap all three targets, reload, double tap all three targets
mix up drills with HOSTAGE targets and OBSTACLES/BARRIERS
also mix up drills with VIPs

Foxtrot drill; 1. Origin. This drill's was designed to train the gun handling skills necessary to complete the final stage of the 10.8 shooting test. The final stage of this assessment requires the shooter to draw and fire one round, reload, fire one round, reload and fire the last round. This drill is performed from 7 yards on an 8 inch IDPA circle in under 5 seconds. I have shot the 10.8 test clean with a 5 second par time several times, however the last drill can always pose a problem from time to time. Common mistakes are; over-griping the gun and interfering with the slide stop causing the slide not to lock to the rear, and not changing gears to ensure smooth reloads.

2. Methodology. Anyone can shoot three individual rounds inside an 8 inch circle from 7 yards, thats not the hard part. It's the consistency of being able to perform all the components of this drill together. The DF3 is designed to practice the shooter in the weapon handling skills necessary to complete 3 accurate rounds from 3 separate magazines with in 5 seconds. I included the malfunction drills to reinforce instinctive behavior when the gun fails to fire. (plus it's the only way to continue the drill with any realism). 

When you can perform the draw, three sighted dry fires, two malfunction drills and two combat reloads under 5 seconds consistently go out and shoot the 10.8 drill with a 5 second par time. It's 65 rounds for 65 points, no points for over times and no points for rounds outside the circle. If you can't clean it, spend some time dry firing. 

Dot Torture Marksmanship Drill

This is a marksmanship drill, fired at 3 yards or further. Targets are ten 2" dots numbered. A total of 50 rounds is needed. You will perform: 22 draws and holster, depending on magazine capacity 5-10 administrative or speed reloads, obtain 83 sight pictures and press the trigger 50 times. 

Dot #1- Draw and fire one string of 5 rounds for best group. One hole if possible, total 5 rounds. 
Dot #2- Draw and fire 1 shot, holster and repeat X4, total 5 rounds. 
Dot #3 and 4- Draw and fire 1 shot on #3, then 1 shot on 4, holster and repeat X4, total 8 rounds. 
Dot #5- Draw and fire string of 5 rounds, strong hand only, total 5 rounds. 
Dot #6 and 7- Draw and fire 2 shots on #6, then 2 on #7, holster, repeat X4, total 16 rounds. 
Dot #8- From ready or retention, fire five shots, weak hand only, total 5 rounds. 
Dot #9 and 10- Draw and fire 1 shots on #9, speed reload, fire 1 shots on #10, holster and repeat X3, total 6 rounds. 

When you can do this clean on demand, extend the length or start timing and work on speed but maintaining accuracy. If a single shot is missed, you flunk. Only hits count and only perfect practice makes perfect. 

I try to do 15-20minutes of dry practice a day or at least 3 times a week if im busy.

People always ask what the secret or tricks of the trade to speed and accuracy are... well I think most of us know by now that there are no tricks, its all mastering and hoaning the basic fundamentals. Shooters and instructors also get carried away with all the high speed shooting out there which is great but even the best masterclass shooters out there can never forget about the basics. there will always be high speed tactical shooting couses, compititions, combat, ect... but the real deal is what you do on your own, and if you dont, when the shit hits the fan one day you will hesitate at the molment of truth. 

So I start with breaking down all the fundamentals...

Pistol

1: set up stance, Modern Isolesles. Nice and tight I shoot on the range as if I were in an actual firefight to keep my combat mindset in the game and to mimic a stressful enviornment. I am tensed and flexed up the whole time to simulate what is going to happen to me in a real fight...adrenaline, hormones, loss of all dexterity ect...
Stay in this stance through out the whole dryfire, it sucks but its worth it, and its a good workout. you should be smoked even after 20mins of dry fire like this. 
anyways...
-weight on the balls of the feet.
-slight comfortable bend in the knees
-bent forward at the waist
-shoulders rolled forward (pistol)
-set tension in the wrists and elbows ..not locked out but tight (pistol) elbows tucked in (rifle)

2: I break down the Draw. startingin the ready position I transistion to the pistol and break the bail (Safariland 6004, per your holster SOP) and aquire master grip and STOP.
***then I repeat this around 25-50 times. consentrating on minimizing the little movements and perfecting just this step.

3: Starting at the "3rd eye postion weapon in front of the chest (strong hand only) with my weak hand only about 10in away fro the gun. I bring the hands together to aquire the master grip on the gun and then STOP. (I use the Leatham/Enos grip with a modified CRUSH grip to simulate high stress shooting.) I do this little drill about 50 times since its the base of the following fundamentals. Consentrate on minimizing the little movements and perfecting just this step.

4: From there I continue to do the drill above but now put the next step in: punch out on target aquiring slight alingment/sight picture and STOP 
I do this drill about 50 times on an actual target/ with T-shirt on for realistic purposes. Then I do it on a target with small Paisties to concentrate more on the sights and trigger pull which comes next. Consentrating on minimizing the little movements and perfecting just this step.

5: From the 3rd eye position do the drill above and then concentrate on isolating the trigger and squeezing, (utilizing the trigger on target theory)
since the only thing that is moving at this point is your trigger, think about using the pull to line up the sights (micro movemnets at this point). this is used in mostly bullseye and 25 yd pistol shooting but this really makes me think about trigger control. Dry fire this until you get sick of it.

6: Once you feel comfortable with these 5 steps, now put it all together, and keep it clean and concentrate on each fundamental but keeping it smooth and minimise all the little unessisary movments. 

7: Strong hand only (all fundamentals)

8: Weak hand only (all fundamentals)

7: Once I'm through my basic funds practice I move into multiple target sight aquisition drill and moving drills responding left/right/back. Then shooting around corners under couches beds ect...

8: Then I go into speed reloads and tac-reloads while dry-firing on the targets.

9: Now I go into Malfunctions, type 1- type 4, I leave imeadiate and remedial action for the rifle. I do these malfunction drills master grip, strong only and weak only...this is something shooters and intructors neglect to do or teach. 


RIFLE

-Same thing as the pistol really... minus the draw...
-I consentrate on sight aquisition speed and utilizing multiple targets. 
-Transitions 
-strong and weak
-malfunctions,...simulate firing then immeadiate action, then remeadial action. ***this drill is for targets over 50yrds only otherwise transition.

When I hit the range I do all the above to warm up and then move into all the high speed practical shooting.
here is a Qual course I use to stay proficient on:

QUAL PISTOL QUALIFICATION

YARD LINE/ DRILL/ REPS/ .45 Cal/ TIME 

25- Pair Standing / Pair Kneeling 1/ 4/ 6
15- Pair Standing / Pair Kneeling 1/ 4/ 5.5
10- Pair /Speed Reload / Pair 1/ 4/ 5
10 to 3- Pair /Speed Reload / Pair 1/ 4/ 5
10 to 3- Failure Drill 1/ 3/ 4.5
7- Pair Strong Hand Only 1/ 2/ 2
7- Pair Weak Hand, weak hand draw 1/ 2/ 5
7- Pair/ Speed Reload / 
Minimum Target Exposure Shot 1/ 3/ 4

SCORE 24 TORSO, 2 BRAIN (52 Points Total), Re-Face Targets.

15- Pair on 1st Target /
Speed Reload / Pair on 2nd Target 1/ 4/ 5
10 to 3- Pair on 1st Target / Speed Reload / 
Pair on 2nd Target 1/ 4/ 5.5
10 to 3- Pair on Both Targets /Speed Reload / 
Minimum Target Exposure Shot on Each 1/ 6/ 6.5
7 to 3- Pair on Both Targets / Speed Reload / 
Pair on Both Targets 1/ 8/ 6.5
7- Minimum Target Exposure Shot on each 
target 1/ 2/ 4

SCORE 20 TORSO, 4 BRAIN (48 Points Total).

TOTAL 50 

NOTES (1) All drills start from the low ready with the M-4.
(2) Tactical/Speed reload as necessary.
(3) Clear any type 1,2 or 3 malfunction on the move.
(4) If you have a Type 3 malfunction, continue to move until you 
reach your point of domination. Clear the malfunction from a 
knee but do not engage.
(5) Always know the condition of your weapon.
(6) If you run dry, you loose those points.
(7) Highest score possible is 100 points. 
(8) Complete CQB / Assault gear will be worn at all times.
(9) Totals are per man. 
__________________

Balance of Speed & Accuracy (BSA Drill/Qual)

100 rds total fired from Rifle, all rds fired into the torso (10in circle) on target the first time we do this in a class we cut out the circle completly so that other shooters cant look up and down the line and see who has the tight little groups. This theory pushes each shooter to their individual failure point and when they miss they (or hit paper) they know they have reached it. 

This Drill was designed by MD instructors to help shooters continue to climb the ladder of excellence. No matter what level we are at be it: beginner, novice, SPECOPs, CIA Ground Branch 007, Grand Master, badass etc.... we always have the ability to excel. (this will be seen in AOTTC II) 

Example #1: If you are a beginner shooter and your fundementals are good and consistant but are getting a 40% hit rate on the BSA and barely making the times then you have reached your failure point and the direction of traingin is obvious.

EXample #2: IF You are an "Advance Shooter" and you are getting your hits in 1.5 sec and you are meeting the time and you are getting tight little groups then you are NOT reaching your failure point and can become even faster. 

It was also designed to get 100% if the perfect balance of speed and accuracy were found and the core principles of Efficency, Consistancy, & Reality were executed. 


5yrd line
Dynamic Stance
Time: 2 sec par on shot clock
total rds: 20
-4rds per iteration, 5 iterations 

10yrd line
Dynamic Stance
Time: 2 sec par on shot clock
total rds: 20
-4rds per iteration, 5 iterations 

15yrd line
Dynamic Stance
Time: 2 sec par on shot clock
total rds: 20
-4rds per iteration, 5 iterations 

25yrd line
Dynamic Stance
Time: 2 sec par on shot clock
total rds: 10
-2rds per iteration, 5 iterations 

50yrd line
Dynamic Stance
Time: 2 sec par on shot clock
total rds: 10
-2rds per iteration, 5 iterations 

75yrd line
on Beep go from standing to Dynamic Kneeling fire 2 shots
Time: 4 sec par on shot clock
total rds: 10
-2rds per iteration, 5 iterations 

100yrd line
On Beep go from standing to Dynamic Prone then fire 2 shots.
Time: 4 sec par on shot clock
total rds: 10
-2rds per iteration, 5 iterations 

3-6-9 (?) Drill. Conducted at March 2010 VTAC Night Fighter class.

Targets: Your choice. 

Set up a barricade approximately 5 yards from the berm/backstop.

Set up a barricade approximately 5 yards directly behind the first barricade (10 yard line).

Set up another barricade approximately 5 yards directly behind the second barricade (15 yard line).

Set up two targets on the berm ... one to the LEFT and one to the RIGHT of the barricades.

Shooter is standing at low ready behind the third barricade approximately 20 yards from the targets.

At go ...

1) Shooter moves to first barricade, takes kneeling position on left side of barricade and fires three rounds into left target. Then switch knees, take kneeling position on right side of barricade and fire three rounds into right target. Then stand and, while emerging from cover on the right side of barricade, advance towards the middle barricade, and shoot another three rounds into the right target on the move.

2) At middle (second) barricade, take kneeling cover behind right side of barricade. Three shots to right target. Switch knees, take kneeling position on left side of barricade, three shots to left target. Stand, and advance towards the next barricade. While on the move, shoot another three shots into left target.

3) Advance to the next barricade and repeat step 1 ... however, when emerging from cover on the right side, advance towards the right target and fire the primary weapon until empty into the right side target while on the move. When empty, transition to pistol and shoot three shots into the head.

Repeat steps 1-3 but starting with support side.

Anything out of the A zone of the target is a miss.


10.8 Pistol Test

All drills are performed at 7 yards, par time is 5 seconds. Target is an IDPA 8" circle. Score - inside the circle is 1 point outside the circle is 0. Over time is 0 points.

1. 4 body 1 head strong hand only holstered

2. transfer gun to support hand 4 body 1 head (start from high ready)

3. Rack slide with strong hand only 4 head strong hand only. Start from high ready with an empty chamber.

4. Rack slide with support hand 4 body 1 head support hand only. Start from high ready empty chamber.

5. Combat reload strong hand only 1 body. Start with empty mag slide open, aimed in.

6. 7 body 1 head. Freestyle from the holster.

7. 7 body combat reload 1 body. Holstered, 7 rounds loaded.

8. 8 head. Holstered.

9. Failure drill, reload failure drill. Start from high ready, 3 rounds loaded.

10. 1 body, 1 head, combat reload, 1 body 1 head. Start holstered 2 rounds loaded.

11. 4 body combat reload 4 head. Start high ready, 4 rounds loaded.

12. 1 body, combat reload, 1 body combat reload, 1 body. Holstered 1 round loaded, 2 mags with 1 round.

Finish. Rounds fired 65, points 65. 
__________________

Triple Bill Drill:
Draw the gun, fire six shots, reload, fire six more, reload, and fire six more onto a target.

Standing to prone drill:
Standing, 5 shots, centre mass
Crouch, same
Prone, same
Go back to standing

with reload you reload after each 5 shots

Mix it up with rate of fire (ROF)




Combat Skills:
Phase 1 - Combat marksmanship (Pistol/Carbine)
Safety 
Fundamentals of marksmanship
Gear set up and placement
Zeroing the carbine
Loading and unloading
Ready positions
Multiple targets
Reloading
Clearing Malfunctions
Use of Cover
Recoil Management
Alternate shooting positions
Low light shooting

Phase 2 - Force Protection 1 (Land warfare)
Fieldcraft
Camouflage and concealment
Judging Distance
Enemy Target Indication
Field Signals and Patrol Formations
Security on Patrol
Battle Drills
Fire and Movement
Crossing Danger Areas
Break Contact Drills
Ballistic Demonstration (The effects of enemy and NATO weapons fired through mediums)

Phase 3 - Force Protection 2 (Urban Warfare)
Urban Movement
Foot movements
Crossing roads and alleyways
Security
Strong Pointing Buildings
Team Bounding
Turning Movements
Communications in Urban Terrain and IFF
Clearing Structures 
Basic CQB principles
Internal Movement
Vehicle Counter Ambush Drills
Enemy TTP's
IED awareness
Combat Indicators
Procedures for Light Skin and Armored Vehicles
React to Enemy Contact in Vehicles
Vehicle Egress Procedure
Regaining the Initiative
Break Contact Drills
Link Ups and RV's
IFF considerations

Land Warfare:
Field craft
Camouflage and concealment
KIM's games and observation lanes
Judging distance/range estimations
Methods of target and enemy indication
Field signals
Patrol formations
Security considerations
React to Contact drills
Fire and Maneuver 
Crossing Dangers Areas and Obstacles
Break Contact Drills
Man Down Drills
Combat First Aid - TCCC

Tactical Breaching:
SHOTGUN BREACHING:
Door assessment
Inward opening doors
Outward opening doors
Weapon selection
Round selection
Hinges
Locks and Throws

MANUAL BREACHING:
Carriage and Use of the Sledge Hammer
Single Operator Ram
The Haligan Tool
Window Break and Rake Techniques
Window entries

VEHICLE BREACHING:
Bar Pull - two bars with hooks that attach to doors and windows and the vehicle uses thrust to pull them off the building


HEAVY BREACHING
Use of the Brocco (Exothermic Breaching)
Use of the Quikie/Partner Saw
Equipment Requirements: Students are required to attend this class with full assault kit to include armor, helmet and full length protective uniform including gloves (Gauntlet style) and Nomex Flash Hood, eye and ear protection. Unit Breaching equipment, Sledge Hammer, Haligan Tool, Brocco torch, Quckie Saw, Shotgun.

artillery: splash, rounds complete, bda
csw: mention how to use csw's etc

medical:
Only medics can heal in the field, ordinary units only at medical facilities, and in either case, only if they have medkits.
When heavily damaged/bleeding, unconsciousness occurs, either multiple times temporary, or even permanently.
Blood loss is increased exponentially when left untreated and the unit moves.
Medics have some of each medical item, while ordinary units only have bandages with them, which only stop bleeding, which can't be used on self when unconscious.
To stop pain, Morphine is needed. To regain consciousness etc, Epinephrine is needed.
Anyone healed in the field does not regain 100% health, and at every healing, the damage left increases.

Lastly there's the "Epi+Morph medics only" module, only allowing those to be used by medics, never by ordinary units.

Abstract Forensic ballistics is the application of ballistics for forensic purposes. The basis is formed by wound ballistics. Two main mechanisms of injury are differentiated: the crush-mechanism resulting in the permanent cavity and the stretch-mechanism resulting in the temporary cavity. The missile-tissue interactions such as yawing, deformation, fragmentation, and bone contact are explained here and it is shown why the energy deposit or the missile velocity are not the sole or primary factors in determining the severity of a wound. The special wound ballistics of the head including indirect (‘‘remote’’) injuries in the brain and skull are discussed. Incapacitation is a necessarily occuring inability to perform complex movements and is therefore based on physiological effects independent of psychological mechanisms such as pain or surprise. Immediate incapacitation can only be caused by direct disruption of brain tissue and thus by penetrating gunshots to the head. Ballistic parameters and intracranial trajectories where sustained capability to act is possible are discussed. Rapid incapacitation is produced by massive blood loss via acute cerebral hypoxemia and subsequent unconsciousness. Targets of rapid incapacitation are the heart, aorta, and the truncus of the pulmonary artery. In cases of considerable ballistic injury to the lungs, liver, kidneys, spleen, large arteries or central veins, the latent period until incapacitation will be in the range of one or several minutes (delayed incapacitation). This potential for physical activity is not always exhausted due to psychological factors. Backspatter is biological material propelled retrogradely out of the entrance wound towards the firearm/the hand of the person shooting. Blood and tissue particles are accelerated by the subcutaneous gas effect, temporary cavitation, and tail splashing. Backspatter therefore is common in closerange gunshots to the head where blood and tissue can travel for several meters. The number of bloodstains can vary greatly and the stains are located in a semicircle of almost 1808 in front of the entrance wound. Characteristic for backspatter are small or tiny droplet or splashing stains with the elongated shapes roughly aiming at the entrance wound. Magnification and appropriate lightning are necessary for investigating backspatter. DNA-analysis of stains can establish a clear link between a person or object and a clearly defined gunshot. Contact of a bullet with an intermediate target can alter the trajectory and stability of the bullet. Contact with fragile materials such as concrete, glass, asphalt, or gypsum-board regularly results in abundant deposits on the bullet, which can be visualized by SEM (scanning electron microscopy) and determined by X-ray microanalysis. Ductile materials such as wood and car body parts only transfer scarce deposits to the bullet which can be indicative of the intermediate target. This important trace evidence is not eliminated by subsequent perforation of tissue. Individualisation of deposits on FMJ bullets after perforation of a human body can be successfully carried out by PCR-typing of STRs and mitochondrial DNA. In cases of gunfights, this makes it possible to determine who was killed or injured by which bullet. The person shooting can be identified by additional comparison of rifling marks. Cellular material is recovered by swabbing the bullet, which should be protected against contamination and loss of material.

Basically he says that the rigid skull acts as a non-yielding wall. Because brain tissue is almost incompressible, intracranial temporary cavitation and surrounding overpressure meet counter-pressure from the skull. And analogous to blunt trauma, enhanced compression can result in contusion of brain tissue discernible as (cortical) contusion zones in superficial layers of the brain remote from the trajectory of the projectile.

heli:
when popped smoke, pilot must say "SEEN, ORANGE" or so "SEEN" then the colour of the smoke. As the VC in Nam used to pop their own smoke to bring them into an ambush.

wound ballistics: it's the pain and the muscles seizing that drops most

variation on the sniper method, observe everything, focus on nothing

cqb - check mag after each room drill, orientate to the threat, keep front-on (due to body armour protecting you). Cover or overt - copy from Swat 4.txt.
use of cs gas and flashbangs (combine them in assaults and it has more shock effect)
instinctive shooting - not aiming down the weapon but getting so used to it and visually adapt to it that you make shots without aiming down the barrel, therefore less accuracy but quicker reactions - note accuracy dependable on experience
if the round hits the enemy in the stomach you can either 1) lean back a little or 2) points the weapon upwards a little and it shall hit higher, aiming for the head - you want to get a double tap in the chest then head shot for most occasions - hitting the CNS or main organs.
If multiple people are in the same room/area (with line of sight) of the terrorist, it is best that all open fire (to avoid confusion and team mates looking at eachother instead of getting rid of a threat). The other members should clear the rest of the room. Normally the guys are designated with sectors.
Torches (flash light) and IR lasers are aids when it comes to instinctive shooting.
Hostages are man handled out of the building. Man handling being pushed or supported - you do not want them to hold onto you.
Make sure everyone (no matter if hostage or not) is cuffed and checked for weapons.
Hard Arrest - subduing the hostage taker without firing (trying not to kill them). Allowed to use unlethal force like beanbags or batons.
Method of Entry - Points of entry (roof, doors, windows even through rappelling, walls, underground sewers).
Distractions - large explosives, an interpretator - used to distract the OPFOR as or before you assault (or as you are assaulting if you got in covertly).
Distractions even being mannequins dressed as soldiers to draw fire and change the ROE, pretending to have a vehicle broken down to draw fire etc.
Slow search/fast search - primary search, get all the suspects, secondary search for evidence ect
slow and deliberate clearance - normally use ballistic shields, use a laser for reference when using shields


Planning - you plan it out, step by step (who goes down the rope, who climbs the ladder when aka 1 being rommel goes first, 2 marcus second) because assaulting is very loud and everyone has to know exactly what to do - sometimes in detail. Studying schematics too.
Familisation - Remake a planned layout of the room and go through scenarios in slow-time (to get used to the layout etc), real-time (how you plan to do it in the mission) and quick-time (to get reactions up and used to the room quickly).
Minds eye - imagining the view of the walls, objects in the way, enemies (using intelligence on weapons etc) and hostages. Minds eye is basically imagining the scenario and re-playing it and playing out different scenarios - you do it until you do not think "should I... turn left, turn right, look here" you JUST do it.

Urban Warfare - SAS in NI provided protection for police who were arresting suspects.
OP's in Northern Ireland N.I. - dug in to ditches or hedgerows
OP's - set them up away from wildlife, the further away from civilisation - the better.
Urban OP's - normally use derelict buildings and use 100 mile per hour tape for windows etc
NI Terrorists used children to check for OP's and even cattle farmers - they even got kids to light fires for urban ops to burn down and kill the observers

Counter-terrorism - it is much more effective to put someone in prison, interrogation or arrest/caputure them than kill them. Due to cousins, brothers etc being angry and drawn towards violence.

Demolitions - Frame Charge - sits in a frame (like a picture frame) and explodes inwards which is good for collapsing walls. Mention Sidney Allford stuff off Future weapons about water allowing expansion etc.

Intelligence gathering - can link to arresting people and destroying their lives (through violent or non-violent means). Say for instance, listening in on conversations and finding evidence to put people in jail or blackmailing them.
Shoot to Kill Policy - Shoot if under direct threat.
No ROE - shoot a threat or potential threat (even unarmed).

stuff to mention:
counter-terrorism - tubular assault (aircraft) ships etc.
polar grid
comms - personal role radio, inter-team radio etc -> post stuff from acre manuals
combat stress
urban combat - plus sniping in urban combat
morale - humour etc
target indications for snipers - add angles like angle 40 top of hill so you can angle the shot

sniping information from docos:
when anti-material sniping on vehicles, mention rate of speed aka high or low rate of speed. Use formula to calculate true rate of speed.
when firing at a vehicle, it is best to take out the driver
prevent scope glare
cut 'ports' aka holes out of fly screens etc to shoot through
sniper should shoot from a contained shadow
sniper needs to cover primary area of responsibility
position must be comfortable enough for long durations
they deny freedom of movement for the enemy 

M203 used in somalia to secure the area over the street, in the room they were going to move into
HE round has an arming distance of around 30m
it can be used in an anti-material role and to create entry points
CAS gas canisters can be used in a support of an assault

comms:
internal - you are inside a certain building 'i am internal within the white building, south side'
external - you are outside 'im outside, external of the white building'

SUN TZU DOCO
Intermingle your forces with the enemies when you close-in with the enemy - that way you will be in close contact and teamwork shall prevail but also the enemy would not use artillery or air support as this happens
You do not win wars by winning battles
Attrition missions to kill all the enemy does not always work, break the will of the enemy and you shall win. Attrition should be to attack vital and main supplies - being moral, food, water, ammunition, communications, military doctrine (try change their tactics to suit you) and leadership.
Set-up curfues for civilians - in Vietnam they said anyone at night walking around will be shot and most civilians then did not come out at night
Pick the time and place - let the enemy patrol and patrol and get tired
Indirect Attack to win, simoutainious multi-planned attacks always win
"Let your plans be as dark as night and strike like a thunderbolt" - Sun Tzu.
Put your faith in spies and intelligence gatherers - Use your spies for risky business
In Vietnam anyone who dealt with Americans was a source, the man who ran the taxi stand outside the American Headquarters was the Chief of Vietcong Intelligence. They were overhearing what soldiers were telling girls, prostitutes, drug dealers and with this information they predicted movements and tactics.
You also get real-time information.
The VC General before the Tet Offensive was trying to figure out how to smuggles thousands of weapons - so he stuck to Sun Tzu tactics - deception and secrecy. They built caves and tunnels 3-4 stories deep and ran for miles with field hospitals, supply depots and sleeping pits. Some of the tunnels ran underneath American base camps.
One of them stretched from the Cambodian border and ran for 75 miles. They were fortified with zig zags and sharp drops to resist U.S. attack, secret enterances, camouflaged ventelation systems and booby-trapped doors.
"Tunnel Rats" were the US guys who went into the holes - armed only with a .45 ACP and a flashlight in most cases.
The VC General also deceived the enemy by calling a cease fire - so the US withdrew some men and relaxed their guard.
He also deceived them by attacking one camp to the very north to draw US troops and reinforcements to there before his real attack began (while the enemy is distracted, you should catch your real objective).
"In battle use a direct attack to engage and an indirect attack to win" - Sun Tzu.
Tet Offensive - took 9 months to plan and 80,000 VC attacked over 100 bases, villages and points of interest. They attacked strategic targets like the American Embassy and Main Radio Station.
"There are five fundamental factors for success in war: weather, terrain, leadership, military doctrine and most importantly moral infulence" - Sun Tzu.
The VC during the Tet Offensive commited "Blacklists", basically assasinations against South VC American simperfisers - they shot 700 nuns and killed over 5,000 vietmanese - this broke the most important rule, moral infulence.
They also lost the Tet Offensive because of lack of communication - 10,000 died in the first days of the attack while US only suffered 200+ casualties.
But infulence was lost both ways - Americans lost a lot of support for the war as they saw images of the Tet Offensive on TV. That caused riots and many protests.
A US colonel met with a VC colonel and snapped at him after this saying "You shall never beat us on the battlefield" The VC colonel replies "That is true, but it is irrelavent". Political context is more important than military - VC understood this very much.

Employ a go strategy, not a chess strategy. Go is a Chinese game where if you use the least amount of units to gain the most land you win.

Sun Tzu carried out cross-border raids on Chu. He killed and captured the best warriors and carried out many hit and run raids. He drained them of men, money and material. Allies began to defect to Sun Tzu.
He lead small-forces to act as bait to draw main forces from cities.
"To move your enemy, intice him with something he is willing to take" - Sun Tzu. He controlled enemy movement by his own manuevre.
"Put the army in a place of death, where there is no escape. And they will not flee or be afraid, there is nothing they cannot achieve" - Sun Tzu. He used this tactic by putting himself in "death ground" - a terrain with no retreat and an advantage for the enemy - he won doing this.
The same principle goes for the Normandy invasion - D-Day. No retreat, no escape and they won. "All warfare is deception, if you can deceive your enemy before battle - you are likely to win" - Sun Tzu.
Spread the enemy forces into a more diverse group. So instead of a direct attack, the allies deceive the enemy by convincing the Germans that the attack will not happen at Normandy.
The allies created a fake army, using inflatable tanks, trucks and boats to fool German reconnaissence photos. They would move the tanks and trucks around at night and they would use men with rollers to make the terrain look like it had tracks as if the tanks were moving around.
The phantom army had to be seen and heard so the radio broadcasts sent endless hours of fake transmissions about troop and supply movements. Bogus traffic helped this deception plan.
The real fighting force for Normandy was an absolute secret.

"It is essential to seek out enemy agents that have come to spy against you and bribe them to serve you" - Sun Tzu.
This can involve blackmailing also - this comes under apart of intelligence gathering for information to use against your enemy.
Double agents - spies your adversary has sent to spy on you, when you find them out you do not jail or kill them, you give them rewards to spy for you.
What they project is that they are spying on you but the information they feed to your enemy is misinformation.

Alfred Owen was a spy - when the war breaked out he was caught straight away. He pretended to play for the Germans and he told the British spies were coming and double crossed them.
The Operation was called 'Double Cross' - it allowed Britain to catch almost every spy sent to Britain. He even said that the Normandy invasion was a diversion for the British to send the main force elsewhere.
"The way a wise General can acheive greatness above ordinary men is through foreknowledge" - Sun Tzu.
The allies gained foreknowledge by decrypting codes - through this they knew how the Germans were thinking, their perception of the war and battlefield, their view of what was happening etc. They were able to feed German spies with ideas that would force their attitudes to support misconceptions.
You must be able to read the mind of the enemy - this can have negatives. The negative was that Churchill knew about the bombings of Coventry through codebreakers breaking German codes - he didn't protect Coventry because he knew the Germans would then understand that Britains were breaking their codes.
He was thinking about the long-term outcome. Many morale dilemas come out of foreknowledge. The German propaganda machines made up the word 'coventrated' to be used when you completely destroy a town.

"When a Falcon strike breaks the body of their prey, it is because of timing. When water tosses boulders, it is because of momentum" - Sun Tzu.
The most well executed attack can be lost when momentum is lost.

At Omaha beach, just the sound of the rounds pinging against the boats before they landed was enough for the Allies to lose the momentum.
Germans then set up an FCL - Final co-ordination line - where they put a co-ordinated attack with as much firepower down on that position. They did this on the front of the boats so the rounds killed two or three at a time - finding it difficult for other men to move past the dead and falling bodies out of the boat.
They had to get through 200 yards of beach and another 100-200 yards of barbed wire and weighed down beaches - all while dragging along wet and heavy webbing etc. This also prevented momentum.
There was no evac, no retreat. Fight or die.

Maintain Momentum - overcome the next barrier.

"It is essential for victory - that Generals are unconstrained by their Leaders" - Sun Tzu. This matters with Platoon Leaders too - aslong as they have the right mental attitude, leadership, knowledge, experience and skill.
Command structure must give total authority to all leaders - leaders must work together to win, do not make the command structure confusing and the overall leader must not always have the final say. Like the SAS do - a chinese parliment, everyone has a say and everyone has responsibility.
The overall leader should not constantly interfere in the decisions of subordinates - the overall leader must allow for individuality of leaders to grow and also their attitude, intelligence and cofindence in warfare.
Overall leaders must have good military doctrines and lead by example for this.

Some German Generals believed tanks should be held in reserve, others thought they should be close to take out boats etc. The decision fell to Hitler and he made all the wrong decisions - the overall leading must not have the overall say in these occasions, especially if other leaders KNOW it is a wrong decision.
The more experienced should not have the overall authority either but should be listened to. The overall decision should not be divided but should be united - all leaders must agree and know exactly what to do.

"Those who fight side by side defeat the enemy"
"The enlightened General must be free to conduct war without interference from the leader" - Sun Tzu.

"Make your enemy prepare on his left and he shall be weak on his right" - Sun Tzu.

Germans called close combat "The War of the Rats" reducing large actions to individual actions with one vs one or two vs one.
They used this tactic in urban scenarios or places with limited vision and a disadvantage. They used it in terrain of hedgerows etc in France.
Tanks found it hard to get through these hedgerows and that's why they used these tactics. It was very effective against tanks.

The Germans thought the Allies would attack Caen as it was the closest to Paris and it had many airfields and landing strips. Fake left, attack right.
The US took the hedgerows with a mass air attack - they took out a lot of tank divisions. They used this to punch a hole through the German line and break out through the death ground.

"You must behave like the snake so if attacked from the front, the rear will reinforce. If attacked from the rear the front will reinforce. If attacked from the middle, both sides will reinforce" - Sun Tzu.
In your responses you must be flexible.

"The winning army realises the conditions for victory first, then fights - the losing army fights first then seeks victory" - Sun Tzu.
Do not rush into battle without knowing what lies ahead.

"No nation has ever benefitted from prolonged War" - Sun Tzu.
The American civil war is a good example of this.

"At times it is best to not go to war in the first place" - Sun Tzu.
You do not always engage your enemy to win - this should be learnt. The recce team needs to learn this, battles do not win wars.

"Those skilled in war bring the enemy to the field of battle, they are not brought by him" - Sun Tzu.
SAS tactics do this by retreating then looping around to ambush.

Lee's strategy during the American civil war was to attack lots of legit targets like supply bases in the North and defend the main cities in the South. But as they moved North, a skirmish enrupts in Gettysburg.
Lee moved without thinking ahead and mobilised his entire army towards Gettysburg. He have up strategic aim by allowing operation developments to divide strategy. If he stuck to the main plan he probably would of destroyed the North.
Lee's reinforcements were miles away defending the main cities like Washington D.C.


To defend a point - your terrain must be obvious, no dead ground etc and easy to see attacks coming from a mile away (sometimes literally a mile away).


"Move only when you see an advantage and there is something to gain, only fight if a position is critical" - Sun Tzu.

[3:00:44 PM] Griff: only thing I dont agree with from Sun Tzu is allowing your enemy a path of escape
[3:00:50 PM] Griff: I like to murder EVERYONE
[3:01:09 PM] Ryan: then get sandwhiched between the retreat line, quick-reaction force, support units and other reinforcements


Sun Tzu Main Rules:
Deception
Foreknowledge
Superior Command Structure
Flexibility

Signal by your moves where you are going to go - when your overall goal is not to go there, deceiving your enemy. So you pretend to go to one place but go to a different place. Special forces do this by using multiple helicopters to go to different landing zones.

Field Training Exercise

1.  Reference:  TRADOC REG 350-6; BCT POI 21-114, Annex Z, Presentation FTX_BRF3.PPT and STAND_TO.PPT for additional detail.

2.  The FTX takes place the week before graduation.

                a.  Collect construction material to build at least one fighting position per platoon to standard.

                b.  Request 3 MRE meals per day per soldier.  Ration sequence is M-M-M.

                c.  Platoon sergeants must maintain an inventory of all their sensitive items and provide a copy to the Supply Sergeant who will keep a master inventory of all sensitive items.  A Sensitive Items Report will be reported by the platoon sergeant to the commander after stand to and prior to lights out; usually around 0600 and 2200.

3.  The FTX is a three phase operation that is normally from Monday to Thursday.

4.  Phase I - Preparation

                                a.  Confirm location of the FTX on the 129 form.

                b.  The cadre will conduct a leader's recon NLT 3 weeks prior to the FTX and mark their platoon areas.  The cadre will conduct another leader's recon with any new ECC cadre.

                                (1)  The commander will explain the concept of operation and assign platoon responsibilities.

                                (2)  The platoon sergeants will backbrief their plan to the commander for their assigned FTX responsibilities.

                                (3)  The company commander will brief the battalion commander on the FTX plan NLT 2 weeks prior to the FTX, and complete the OPORD with distribution to the battalion S-3 and the commander.

                                (4)  3 weeks out:  Training NCO coordinates porta potties with the S-4, provides dates, location, and grid.  Coordinates permission from Range Control to erect a road barrier and ASP, dig fighting positions, and erect wire; provide dates, location and grid.  Coordinates medic support from MEDDAC and a religious service from the chaplain; provides dates, location and grid.  Request AN/PVS-7s from Holder Complex and test them before going to the field.

c.  Prior to the FTX the drill sergeants will reinforce the following skills:

                                (1)  Set up of shelter half including a practical exercise.

                                (2)  Battle Drills including:  Reaction to Ambush;  Reaction to Indirect Fire;  Reaction to Enemy Contact.

                                (3)  Patrolling Techniques including:  Patrol base fundamentals; Movement techniques (wedge, Ranger file);  Hand and Arm Signals (Go, Halt, Enemy Direction, Wedge, File, Pace Count, Head Count, etc.);  Light and Noise Discipline;  POW search and Aid & Litter teams;  Stand to.

                (4)  Principles of Defense:  Priorities of work;  Standards for a two man fighting position and for a hasty one man fighting position;  SALUTE and ACE reports.

                                (5)  Fieldcraft including:  Personal hygiene;  Compass skill reinforcement

                                (6)  Build the soldiers’ ability to don MOPP4 for four hours by gradually increasing their tolerance throughout the cycle.

                d.  The Saturday or Sunday before the FTX, the commander will brief the privates about the FTX, sequence of events and task, conditions, and standards (use presentation FTX_BRF3.PPT).  Consider dressing one of the cadre in an OPFOR uniform with dummy Threat weapons (coordinate with TSC Training Aids 1 week out) for a Threat briefing.  The focus of discussion should be to reinforce discipline in the field:  The American Soldier as his own worse enemy.

                e.  Sunday, the drill sergeants will conduct a Pre-Combat Inspection ensuring that the soldiers are appropriately packed and that their clothing is properly water-proofed.  Platoon sergeants will maintain a serial number inventory of all sensitive items including MILES and provide a copy to the Supply Sergeant.  Supply will maintain a Master Sensitive Items Inventory.

5.  Phase II - Deployment  (Suggested Course of Action)

                a.  Day 1. 

                                (1)  Training Areas (TA) and Hunting Areas (HA) are indicated by the USAARMC 129.  The duty platoon will serve as the quartering party and set up the company area prior to the main body’s arrival.  Utilize privates who cannot footmarch out to the site.  Position someone to spot and sign for porta-potties.  Receive the ammunition and set up the barrier with guard.  Send an opening report to Range Control and the battalion S3 Shop.

                                (2).  The company will footmarch 10K to the bivouac site.

                                (3)  No one does any setting up of tents/digging until the commander or 1SG verifies the perimeter.

                                (3)  The duty platoon must ensure that the ASP has dunnage (wooden pallets), concertina wire, a fire extinguisher, a radio, and a tarp to cover the ammunition.

                                (4)  Rotate guards regularly throughout the FTX.  Like KP, guard duty is a part of the basic training experience.

                                (5)  Never allow privates to use or touch simulators, flares, or smoke grenades!  Cadre will be briefed and follow all USAARMC guidelines.  Use ground flares for demonstration only.

                                (6)  After the company has arrived and the company admin site is established, break down into platoons for the rest of the first day.  Drill sergeants will continue to teach and reinforce skills and battle drills, and platoons will establish their own perimeters.  Report sensitive items report to the battalion S3 Shop.  Before dark, conduct a tick check.  The first night, platoons will conduct NVD familiarization and conduct a terrain walk after dark.  Once training is complete, the platoons will bed down, except for a platoon roving guard, and the ASP/Radio and gate guard.  Report “Guard status” to Range Control.  At least two drill sergeants will remain with the company all night.

                b.  Day 2. 

                (1)  Contact Range Control and report “Training status.”  Gain accountability of personnel and equipment.  Bring the medic out and conduct sick call at the FTX site.

                                (2)  Eat breakfast, conduct hygiene and camouflage self and equipment.

                                (3)  Prepare Hasty Fighting Positions around platoon perimeters.

                                (4)  Eat lunch and conduct 4 hours in MOPP4.  Construct and camouflage shelter halves.  Conduct classes.

                                (5)  After "All Clear", eat dinner and begin to construct a two man fighting position to standard.

                                (6)  Drill sergeants will continue to reinforce training, reviewing patrolling, battle drills, first aid, and compass skills.  Conduct tick check.  Maintain 50% security throughout the night and ensure sufficient drill sergeant supervision.

                c.  Day 3. 

(1)  Conduct stand to (see FTX-BRF3.PPT presentation).

                                (2)  After stand to, conduct personal hygiene, sick call, eat breakfast and recamouflage.

                                (3)  Conduct classes and lane training in the morning:  Move as a member of a fire team; React to indirect fire; React to contact; Aid & Litter team; Administer buddy aid.

                                (4)  Issue a platoon OPORD.

                                (5)  Conduct STX lanes.  Reinforce land navigation skills with legs approximately 300m in length.  The drill sergeant will act as the squad leader and evaluator.

                                (a)  Soldier leaders will serve as fire team leaders with the emphasis on buddy team and fire team operations within squads.

                (b)  Drill sergeants will conduct AARs after each lane focusing on encouraging privates to be the primary speakers to draw out lessons learned.

                (c)  Rotate compass and pace man.

                                (6)  If a separate compass course is desired, lay out the course and have drill sergeants proof the lanes.  Develop a self-correcting course with short legs (less than 400 meters).  Drill sergeants will review safety, start points, confirm pace count, and review panic azimuth, and a NLT return time with the soldiers prior to their departure.  No solitary soldiers will execute the course for safety reasons.  Do not plan point across, near or along hardball roads.  Soldiers will stay off hardball roads throughout the course.

                                (7)  Have privates fill in all holes, take down shelters, pack and police the area.  Collect as much expended brass as possible throughout the FTX:  failure to collect 70% of expended brass will require a loss statement signed by the battalion commander.  Ensure all sensitive items and equipment are properly accounted.  Conduct tick check.

                                (8)  Issue a platoon movement order for a 1900 hour SP for Poorman Range (Night Infiltration Course).  Movement by foot to the range counts as part of the 15k return footmarch.  Ensure that a safety briefing is conducted and that the overlay is called into Range Control.  Drill sergeants will check to ensure all soldiers have full canteens prior to marching.  The company will conduct a shakedown for ammunition and conduct inspection arms prior to beginning the roadmarch.  Contact Range Control to close the training area.

                                (9)  Conduct Poorman Range.  Drill sergeants serve as AIs during the practice (daylight) phase and at least one drill sergeant leads by example.

                                (10)  After Poorman Range, complete the 15k footmarch.  Coordinate with the S3 Shop to conduct the Rite of Passage ceremony (see Annex AT).  Plan to present privates with their US brass and provide them with a large “Victory Breakfast.”

6.  Phase III - Recovery.

                a.  Recovery will commence as soon as the 15K is over.  Drill sergeant supervision is crucial.

                b.  Recovery and preparation for Inspection 4B are outlined in Appendix 1.

                c.  The company has until the following Monday to close out the 5811R.  All brass, however, must be turned in before leaving the site.


trip wires/booby traps - nearly invisible wire, really hard to see - so mark with objects, taliban use corn shafts etc to mark mines