http://interestingdiscussions.blogspot.com/2008/07/generation-kill-glossary.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_government_and_military_acronyms
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NATO_phonetic_alphabet

A Fire Support Coordinating Measure (FSCM) is one of any number of means to facilitate planning and executing rapid engagement of targets with the appropriate weapon or group of weapons, while simultaneously providing safeguards for everything else on the battlefield.
HSLD: High Speed Low Drag. Meaning very efficient, professional, and swift.

POW = privately-owned weapons
Vehicle Drop Off (VDO)
UO - urban operations

GLOSSARY
AATTV Australian Army Training Team Viet Nam
Albatross RAAF callsign for 9 Squadron slick helicopter
Albatross RAAF callsign for the leader’s aircraft in an insertion
Zero One
Albatross the slick that actually carries the SAS patrol on
Zero Two insertion guided by Albatross Zero One
ANPRC–25 very high frequency, man portable, radio set
AO area of operations
APC M113 armoured personnel carrier tracked vehicle
ARVN Army of the Republic of South Viet Nam
Bird Dog propeller-driven aircraft used by forward air controllers
and for reconnaissance
BT British tropical (rations)
Bushranger RAAF callsign for the helicopter gunships armed with
mini-guns and FFAR rockets
casevac casualty evacuation
clacker the fi ring device which generates the power to detonate
the Claymore mine
Claymore a shaped anti-personnel mine capable of devastating
(mine) results fi red singly or in banks
ON PATROL WITH THE SAS
viii
click one kilometre
CMF Citizen Military Forces
CO Commanding Offi cer, in RAAF terms, the commander
of the squadron
comms communications
covert an act conducted in secrecy or disguise
CP command post
CS (gas) a disabling explosive powered chemical agent designed
to render the opposition incapable of resisting in a
fi re-fi ght. Causes coughing, weeping and runny noses.
Can be lethal in a confi ned space such as a tunnel or
bunker
CW continuous wave
C4 composition explosive
DCM Distinguished Conduct Medal
Digger an Army soldier, rank indeterminate
DOBOP Directorate of British Operations
EW electronic warfare
exfi l exfi ltrate, covertly depart an area
FAC forward air controller, usually airborne
FARELF Far East Region Land Forces
FFAR, rocket, (folding fi n aerial rocket) a rocket fi red in pods of seven
2.75 inch from the sides of the Bushranger gunship aircraft
fl eschette a shotgun type of round which fi res steel darts instead
round of balls
GPMG–M60 general purpose machine-gun 7.62 mm
H&I harassment and interdiction artillery or air strikes
HE high explosive
HF high frequency
humint human intelligence (sources)
IA immediate action
infi l infi ltration, covertly enter an area
Int(el) Intelligence (offi cer, staff, sources)
Intrep intelligence report
J jungle
ix
jungle a device lowered from a helicopter to extract people
penetrator from the thick vegetation when landing was not possible
karabiner a roping and climbing device designed to allow one to
hook onto a rope for extraction purposes
Karex a term used for karabiner extraction or rope extraction
LFT light fi re team, two gunship helicopters
locstat (patrol) location state
LOH light observation helicopter
LRRP long range reconnaissance patrols, usually American
forces
LUP lying up position, any place used by the SAS for a halt
of some time (see Notes to Chapter 3)
LZ landing zone
M16 5.56 mm rifl e used by Free World Forces in Viet Nam
M18A–1 the Claymore mine designation
M79 40 mm grenade launcher
M203 5.56 mm M16 rifl e with a 40 mm grenade launcher
mounted below the rifl e barrel
MG machine-gun
mini-gun, a Gatling type weapon mounted on the side of the
7.62 mm gunships capable of fi ring 6000 rounds per minute, but
adjusted to 4000 rpm for 9 Squadron
NCO non-commissioned offi cer
NVA North Vietnamese Army
OC Offi cer Commanding, usually a squadron or company
sized unit
OKC operator keyboard cipher
OKRC operator keyboard radio cipher
OPSO operations offi cer, the person responsible for the actual
deployment of patrols
OTLP one-time letter pad
Owen gun 9 mm, automatic machine carbine, designed as a jungle
weapon
GLOSSARY
patrol the basic group in a troop; can be any size from four-man
to troop size
PE plastic explosive
PIR Pacifi c Islands Regiment (PNG)
pop (throw) request to detonate a smoke grenade for aircraft idensmoke
tifi cation of patrol location
psyops psychological operations
PW prisoner of war
PZ pick-up zone, for helicopter extraction
RAAF Royal Australian Air Force
RAD rope attachment device, the in-board device used
to hold the ropes lowered to SAS patrols for rope
extraction
RANHFV Royal Australian Navy Helicopter Flight Viet Nam
rapell to belay down a rope suspended from a helicopter
R&C rest and convalescence (leave)
reconnaissance the act of searching an area or location with the intent
of determining who or what is at that site. Can be overt
or covert
RF/PF Regional Force and Popular Force militia of the ARVN
RPG rocket propelled grenade, the weapon called a B–40 or
RPG–2 and larger RPG–7
RPKAD Indonesian parachute commandos, akin to the SAS
RV rendezvous point
SARBE 9 Search and Rescue Beacon (see also URC– 10)
SAS Special Air Service
SASR Special Air Service Regiment, comprises three sabre
squadrons each of about 120 men
sched scheduled radio report time
SEAL (US Navy) Sea Air and Land teams
SHQ squadron headquarters
SI senior instructor
sitrep situation report
slick slang term for troop-carrying helicopter
ON PATROL WITH THE SAS
x
xi
SLR 7.62 mm, self-loading rifl e, semi-automatic (but usually
converted by the SAS to fully automatic)
SOP standard operating procedure; the norm
squadron a company sized group consisting of three troops
SSM squadron sergeant major, the senior NCO of the squadron
Sten gun 9 mm, automatic machine-gun
Stirling 9 mm, automatic machine-gun
surveillance the act of observing a known location in order to determine
exact numbers, activities and the routine of those
enemy being observed. Usually covert.
Swiss seat a rope belt designed as a body harness for rope extraction
2IC second-in-command
tiger suit camoufl age uniform worn by ARVN Ranger units
troops a platoon sized group consisting of at least four six-man
patrols
UH–1H the Utility Helicopter used by the RAAF; 1H is the model
designation
UHF ultra high frequency
under and the M16 Armalite rifl e with a 40 mm grenade launcher
over under the rifl e barrel, also known as the XM148 or the
M203
URC–10, a small UHF radio beacon, also capable of voice
URC–68 transmission
UW unconventional warfare
UXB unexploded bomb
VC Viet Cong, the main fi ghting arm of the National Liberation
Front
VC Main enemy troops who were extremely well trained and
Force equipped
VHF very high frequency
VR visual reconnaissance
WHAM winning hearts and minds (program)
white usually in grenade form for identifi cation or as a
phosphorus weapon to deter follow-up
GLOSSARY
XM148 the precursor to the M203 ‘under and over’, a 5.56 mm
rifl e with 40 mm grenade launcher underneath the rifl e
barrel

RANKS:
PVT private
TPR trooper
SGT sargeant

[u]Definition[/u]
[u]Application[/u]
[u]Purpose[/u]
[u]Conditions[/u]
[u]Result[/u]
[u]Example[/u]

put camouflage pattern abbreviations here:
MC - Multicam

A command center is a central place for carrying out orders and for supervising tasks, also known as a headquarters, or HQ. Common to every command center are three general activities: inputs, processes and outputs.

The process aspect involves a command element that makes decisions about what should be done about the input data, so all data provided must be accurate and understood.

[b]The SALUTE Report:[/b]

[u]Definition[/u]
SALUTE is an acronym for: Size (of enemy force), Activity (of the enemy), Location (of the enemy), Unit (the type of military unit or their uniforms), Time (of observation), Equipment (that the enemy has).

They are usually made through all of the lines, one at a time, e.g. Sierra Alpha Lima Uniform Tango Echo.
Location may be a grid, reference and distance from or a simple indication with a town name. Remarks may be added on top e.g. on guard, weak posture.

[u]Application[/u]
When a soldier observes enemy activity, he is obligated to make a "spot report" (referring to the enemy being "spotted") and present it in SALUTE format to his commanding officer.

They are numbered so commanders and team leaders do not get mixed up between similar or multiple reports, e.g. SALUTE 2-1, SALUTE 2-2.

[u]Purpose[/u]
The purpose of a SALUTE report is to convey the most vital information regarding enemy activity in order to elicit professional discussion in the determination of a military strategy.

[u]Conditions[/u]
Regulations state that a SALUTE report must be given to the chain of command within 5 minutes of observing enemy activity.

[u]Result[/u]
The standardized SALUTE format is designed to train the soldier to quickly and thoroughly compile vital pieces of information in an organized manner. This efficiency in reporting also results in greater precision and detail of information.

Remember SALUTE denotes: Size, Activity, Location, Unit, Time, and Equipment.

[u]Example[/u]
Brown Horse, this is White Horse. Stand by for SALUTE Report 2 dash 1, over.

White Horse, this is Brown Horse. Stand by to copy.

Line Sierra, 20 personnel. Line Alpha: patrolling what appears to be a headquarters, break. Line Lima, 3-8 Sierra Papa Victor 3-2-4 4-2-9. Line Uniform: Republican guard, break. Line Tango: 2-3 March 2-0-0-3 1-7-3-0 Zulu. Line Echo: AK-47s and RPKs. How copy so far? Over.

Yeah, say again line Lima, over.

Roger. I say again, line Lima: 3-8 Sierra Papa Victor 3-2-4 4-2-9, how copy?

Solid copy. Do you have any remarks? Over.

Affirm. Remarks: all personnel appear to be on guard. Very weak posture. Over.

Roger, solid copy on all. Brown Horse out.

Godfather, Godfather, this is Raptor. Stand by for SALUTE Report. Over.

Raptor, this is Godfather. Send your traffic. Over.

Roger. Line Sierra, four enemy personnel, break. Line Alpha, holding what appears to be LPOPs vicinity MSR south of Al Kut, break. Line Lima, Papa Victor 5-4-9 3-9-4, how copy so far? Over.

Solid copy so far, over.

Roger. Line Uniform: unknown at this time. Line Tango, 3 April 1-7-0-0 Zulu 2-0-0-3. Break. Line Echo, four AK47s, web gear, six AK mags per. Over.

Solid copy, break. Do you have any remarks? Over.

Affirm. Stand by to copy remarks, over.

Roger. Standing by to copy.

Remarks as follows: all four personnel were found posted along northern running MSR. Appear to be LPOP, two personnel had red and green pop-up flairs. No communications or night vision were found, over.

Roger. Godfather copies. Break. Bring EPWs to be processed at the CP after field interrogation. Godfather out.


[b]The ACE Report:[/b]

[u]Definition[/u]
An ACE Report (ACEREP) is a report based on Ammunition, Casualty, and Equipment that every squad calls out once asked for. It is for the commander to assess the next step e.g. logistics, CASEVAC or RTB.

[u]Application and Purpose[/u]
It is used during an on-going or long-range patrol in order to assess the situation and the next step on that. It can also be used for squads to share their ammunition and equipment between themselves.

[u]Conditions[/u]
An ACE Report must be given by each team in order as soon as the command has been given. It's essentially an ACE report (ACEREP) given by the squad or team members after any engagement.

[u]Result[/u]
To train soldiers to assess their own situation independantly, conserve ammunition and co-ordinate between themselves for casualty control, equipment, re-supply, conservation and ammunition storing.

[u]Example[/u]
Alpha, up, 700 and up.

Bravo, up, 300, and up.

1st UP: Team/Squad member is present and breathing. If they are not then you are down, e.g. 1 down, one casualty.
Number: Rounds on hand, between the vehicle and the whole team.
2nd UP: Equipment check. If you have it all, then you're 'up'.


[b]Situation Report:[/b]

A sitrep is a report on your squads current situation and short term goals. If the order is given during a firefight then it is your squads situation within that firefight e.g. casualties, ammunition, what you are going to do and your assessment of the situation. Sitreps not involving a firefight may consist of the amount of rations and water left, or your report on your current situation of whatever you are doing e.g. changing a tyre, sitrep, ETA to tyre change 5 minutes.


[b]After Action Report and Review:[/b]


[b]Intelligence Report:[/b]

Military intelligence is an element of warfare which covers all aspects of gathering, analyzing, and making use of information, including information about the natural environment (Shulsky and Schmitt, 2002), over enemy forces and the ground. It involves spying, look-outs, high-tech surveillance equipment, and also secret agents.

Intelligence reports, INTREP's, are important to patrols to keep up-to-date, almost real-time information flowing between recon units, spies and the patrol. This can help not only the patrol assess the situation infront of them but the Commander assess a battle plan and other battlefield factors.


[b]Unit Status Report:[/b]

This is a report similar to a situational report but involving the whole unit of which the command was given to.


[b]Enlisted Performance Report:[/b]

[u]Definition[/u]
EPR is an evaluation form used to assess personnel based on their current, past or possibilities of future performance. In military terms it is used as an assessment tool but I would personally use it to assess the individual based on averages and facts.

[u]Purpose[/u]
To provide meaningful feedback to individuals on what is expected of them, advice on how well they are meeting those expectations, and advice on how to better meet those expectations.

To provide a reliable, long-term, cumulative record of performance and potential based on that performance.


[b]Officer Performance Report[:/b]

[u]Definition and Purpose[/u]
An OPR is the same as an EPR but for an Officer or Leader in order to assess them. Therefore the averages and quality expected are higher.


[b]Progress Report:[/b]

[u]Definition[/u]
Also known as 'ProgRep', progress reports are related to a goal which has been set from the field back to the command element.

[u]Application[/u]
To be used when the Commanding Officer needs a report on what has happened during a space of time, in fast and on-going battles this report may be going back and forth between Commander and the units on the ground very quickly in order for the Commander to build-up an idea of what is happening on the battlefield and assess the situation from there.

[u]Example[/u]
Bravo, ProgRep, Over.

We have moved 100m NW, currently engaging 2xPick-up's, 0 casualties.


[b]Abbreviations for Patrol Reporting:[/b]

RNLTD - Report No Later Than Date, e.g. RNTLD, 24/5.
RNLTT - Report No Later Than Time, e.g. RNLTT, 0700.
Sitrep - Situational Report; your squads situation.
ACEREP - Ammunition, Casualty and Equipment Report.
SALUTE Report - Size, Activity, Location, Unit, Time, and Equipment.
AmmoRep - Ammunition Report; how much left for each weapon type.
AAR - After Action Report or Review; for self and squad improvement, showing how you messed up and what actions you took in a contact and assessing those actions to work out what should of happened, the good, the bad and the ugly.

A - Alpha
B - Bravo
C - Charlie
D - Delta
E - Echo
F - Foxtrot
G - Golf
H - Hotel
I - India
J - Juliet
K - Kilo
L - Lima
M - Mike
N - November
O - Oscar
P - Papa
Q - Quebec
R - Romeo
S - Sierra
T - Tango
U - Uniform
V - Victor
W - Whiskey
X - X-ray
Y - Yankee
Z - Zulu

MOPP Level 0 — Protective mask worn in carrier, at side. Overgarments, gloves, and overboots accessible.
MOPP Level 1 — Overgarments worn, chemical agent detectors worn, mask worn in carrier at side. Gloves and overboots readily accessible.
MOPP Level 2 — Overgarments and overboots worn. Gloves and mask readily accessible.
MOPP Level 3 — Mask, overgarments, and overboots worn. Gloves kept ready.
MOPP Level 4 — All protection worn.

MOPP (Mission Oriented Protective Posture)
vehicle check point (VCP)
vehicle hide (VH) - use cammie nets, break lines of the humvee so when they are a few 100 meters out they are hard to see
set-up lines of defence, mortars in the middle for 3rd line, mounted guns and snipers for 2nd, small arms for 1st - 1st has patrols


signing out of a FOB, making sure the FOB knows exactly who has gone
TTP - tactical training procedures
Eight Ball/8Ball - a one-eight stick of something e.g. C4
foothold - 1. A place providing support for the foot in climbing or standing. 2. A firm or secure position that provides a base for further advancement.
i-comm chatter - enemy communication talk
hold right - right handside guys hold still, cqb clearing
linking up - getting together at a set position
actual - leader
shift - move a certain direction e.g. shift east
approx - approximately


warning order or call e.g. two-minute warning till we hit the bridge
retrograting - To move or seem to move backward.
bird - aircraft
step off - move out
squad victors, platoon victors, battalion victors - all callsigns, all vehicles
LPOP - Listening Post, Observation Post
send remarks - send remarks you have on the situation
ready for remarks - ready to hear your remarks
advance - move forward
limit fire, resistrictive fire - both ROE and say a clockface e.g. do not engage on your left past 11 o'clock
you have wind 1-5, north - you have a wind speed of 15 coming from the north
assemble - get together in one area
ASAP - as soon as possible
EPW/EPOW/POW - enemy prisoner of war
CAO - counter-air operations
mike-mike - millimetre (mm)
ECP - Entry Control Point e.g. entrance with machinegun nests etc, Equipment Collection Point, Egress Control Point
sentry, guard, watch, piquet duty
WMD - weapons of mass destruction
WM - woman
morning orders, afternoon orders, evening orders, night orders, early morning orders


on the net - on the radio, comms
a no-go - negative
correction - correcting my message, take this next message as the correct version
if someone calls targets and you can't see them
call no target
call muzzle flashes
FPF - final protective fire
checking in - making sure you got comms and establishing comms
staging vehicles - getting the vehicles ready for the mission
PPE - personal protective equipment
chain-link fence, wooden fence
rebillet - move accomodation

fragmentary order:
An abbreviated form of an operation order (verbal, written or digital) usually issued on a day-to-day basis that eliminates the need for restating information contained in a basic operation order. It may be issued in sections. It is issued after an operation order to change or modify that order or to execute a branch or sequel to that order. Also called FRAG order.

tangitle
1.
pertaining to or of the nature of a tangent; being or moving in the direction of a tangent.
2.
merely touching; slightly connected: tangential information.
3.
divergent or digressive, as from a subject under consideration: tangential remarks.



normally when they say ready they mean they have a pen and paper, laptop or something to note it down with
or they are going to remember that traffic
all else is clear and they are able to concerntrate


SALUTE REPORT:

Definition

SALUTE is an acronym for: Size (of enemy force), Activity (of the enemy), Location (of the enemy), Unit (the type of military unit or their uniforms), Time (of observation), Equipment (that the enemy has).
Sierra Alpha Lima Uniform Tango Echo
split up into those lines
location may be a grid
remarks may be added on top e.g. on guard, weak posture, on guard, very alert - high posture etc.

Application

When a soldier observes enemy activity, he is obligated to make a "spot report" (referring to the enemy being "spotted") and present it in SALUTE format to his commanding officer.

Purpose

The purpose of a SALUTE report is to convey the most vital information regarding enemy activity in order to elicit professional discussion in the determination of a military strategy.

Conditions

Regulations state that a SALUTE report must be given to the chain of command within 5 minutes of observing enemy activity.

Result

The standardized SALUTE format is designed to train the soldier to quickly and thoroughly compile vital pieces of information in an organized manner. This efficiency in reporting also results in greater precision and detail of information.

they are numbered e.g. SALUTE 2-1, SALUTE 2-2

example:
own Horse, this is White Horse. Stand by for SALUTE Report 2 dash 1, over.

BROWN HORSE
White Horse, this is Brown Horse. Stand by to copy.

WHITE HORSE
Line Sierra, 20 personnel. Line Alpha: patrolling what appears to be a headquarters, break. Line Lima, 3-8 Sierra Papa Victor 3-2-4 4-2-9. Line Uniform: Republican guard, break. Line Tango: 2-3 March 2-0-0-3 1-7-3-0 Zulu. Line Echo: AK-47s and RPKs. How copy so far? Over.

BROWN HORSE
Yeah, say again line Lima, over.

WHITE HORSE
Roger. I say again, line Lima: 3-8 Sierra Papa Victor 3-2-4 4-2-9, how copy?

BROWN HORSE
Solid copy. Do you have any remarks? Over.

WHITE HORSE
Affirm. Remarks: all personnel appear to be on guard. Very weak posture. Over.

BROWN HORSE
Roger, solid copy on all. Brown Horse out.

RAPTOR
Godfather, Godfather, this is Raptor. Stand by for SALUTE Report. Over.

GODFATHER
Raptor, this is Godfather. Send your traffic. Over.

RAPTOR
Roger. Line Sierra, four enemy personnel, break. Line Alpha, holding what appears to be LPOPs vicinity MSR south of Al Kut, break. Line Lima, Papa Victor 5-4-9 3-9-4, how copy so far? Over.

GODFATHER
Solid copy so far, over.

RAPTOR
Roger. Line Uniform: unknown at this time. Line Tango, 3 April 1-7-0-0 Zulu 2-0-0-3. Break. Line Echo, four AK47s, web gear, six AK mags per. Over.

GODFATHER
Solid copy, break. Do you have any remarks? Over.

RAPTOR
Affirm. Stand by to copy remarks, over.

GODFATHER
Roger. Standing by to copy.

RAPTOR
Remarks as follows: all four personnel were found posted along northern running MSR. Appear to be LPOP, two personnel had red and green pop-up flairs. No communications or night vision were found, over.

GODFATHER
Roger. Godfather copies. Break. Bring EPWs to be processed at the CP after field interrogation. Godfather out.


0–9

1LT – First Lieutenant (U.S. Army) (USAF uses "1st Lt")
2LT – Second Lieutenant (U.S. Army) (USAF uses "2d Lt")
2IC – Second In Command

[edit] A

A – analog
A1C – Airman 1st Class (USAF E-3)
A2C2 – Army airspace command and control
A-3 – (Operations Directorate (COMAFFOR))
A-5 – (Plans Directorate (COMAFFOR))
AA – Anti-Aircraft
AA – assembly area
AA – assessment agent
AA – avenue of approach
AAA – antiaircraft artillery
AAA – arrival and assembly area
AAA – assign alternate area
AAAS – amphibious aviation assault ship
AABB – American Association of Blood Banks
AABWS – amphibious assault bulk water system
AAC – activity address code
AAC – Army Air Corps (British)
AAC – Australian Army Cadets (Australia)
AACG – arrival airfield control group
AADC – area air defense commander
AADP – area air defense plan
AA&E – arms, ammunition, and explosives
AAEC – aeromedical evacuation control team
AAFC – Australian Air Force Cadets (Australia)
AAFES – Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AAFIF – automated air facility information file
AAFS – amphibious assault fuel system
AAFSF – amphibious assault fuel supply facility
AAGS – Army air-ground system
AAI – air-to-air interface
AAM – air-to-air missile
AAMDC – US Army Air and Missile Defense Command
AAOE – arrival and assembly operations element
AAOG – arrival and assembly operations group
AAP – Allied administrative publication
AAP – assign alternate parent
AAR – after action report
AAR – after action review
AAS – Army Apprentice School (Australia)
AAST – aeromedical evacuation administrative support team
AAT – automatic analog test
AAT – aviation advisory team
AAU – analog applique unit
AAV – amphibious assault vehicle
AAW – antiair warfare
AB – airbase
AB – Airman Basic (USAF E-1)
ABCA – American, British, Canadian, Australian Armies Program
ABCS – Army Battle Command System
ABD – airbase defense
ABFC – advanced base functional component
ACF – Army Cadet Force (UK Military)
ADF – Australian Defence Force (Australia)
ADFA – Australian Defence Force Academy (Australia)
ADFC – Australian Defence Force Cadets (Australia)
ADOS – Active Duty, Operational Support
ADSW – Active Duty, Special Work
AFI – Awaiting Further Instruction
AFO – Another Fucking Observer
AFOSI – Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AHA – AmmunitionHoldingArea
AIM – Airborne Intercept Missile (U.S. military)
AIPD – Army Institute For Professional Development
AIRTC – Air Training Corps (former name for the Australian Air Force Cadets)
AIT – Advanced Individual Training (U.S. Army)
Amn – Airman (USAF E-2)
ALCON – All CONcerned (U.S. military)
AMU – Aicraft Maintenance Unit
AMXG – Aircraft Maintenance Group
AMXS – Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
An – Antonov (Russian)
ANZAC – Australian and New Zealand Army Corps
AOL – Absent Over Leave (U.S. Navy)
AO – Area of Operations
A&P – administrative and personnel
AP – Armor-Piercing
APC – Armored Personnel Carrier
APFSDS – Armour-Piercing Fin-Stabilized Discarding Sabot
APO – Army Post Office; See also FPO
APPN – Appropriation Number (U.S. Military)
APRT – Army Physical Readiness Test (U.S. Army)
ARA – Australian Regular Army (Australia)
ARes – Army Reserve (Australia)
ARM – Anti-Radar Missile
ARM – Anti-Radiation Missile
ARMS – Automated Recruit Management System (U.S. military)
ARMS – Aviation Resource Management System (USAF)
ARMY - Aren't Ready for Marines Yet (U.S. Marines)
ART – Alarm Response Team (USAF)
ARVN – Army of the Republic of (South) Viet Nam (U.S. Military)
ASAP – Army Substance Abuse Program (U.S. military)
ASAP – As Soon As Possible
ASEAN – Association of South East Asian Nations
ASM – Air to Surface Missile
ASM – Anti-Ship Missile
ASV – Anti-Surface Vessel (airborne radar)
ASVAB – Armed Services Voccasional Aptitude Battery
ASW – Anti-Submarine Warfare
ATC – Air Training Corps
ATC – Air Traffic Control
ATO – Air Tasking Order
ATO – Antiterrorism Officer
ATTRS – Army Training Requirements And Resources Development
AWOL – Absent With Out Leave

[edit] B

BAMCIS – Begin planning Arrange Recon Make the plan Complete the plan Issue the order Supervise (US Navy Seabees)
BAH - Basic Allowance for Housing
BAR - Browning Automatic Rifle
BAU – Behavioural Analysis Unit
BCG – Birth Control Glasses (U.S. Military)
BCT – Basic Combat Training (U.S. Army)
BDF – Barbados Defence Force (Barbados)
Be – Beriev (Russian)
BEA – Budget Execution Authority (U.S. Navy)
BGHR – By God He's Right (U.S Military)
BLUF - Bottom Line Up Front (US Military)
BMNT – Begin Morning Nautical Twilightight (U.S Army)
BOHICA – Bend Over Here It Comes Again (US Military)
BRAC – Base Realignment And Closure Comission
BRAT (American)– Born RaisedAndTransferred (American usage, refers to dependent children of military personnel) Usually Pronounced "Military Brat" (Or "Air Force BRAT", or Army "Brat", Navy "Brat" etc.).[1]
BRAT (British)– British RegimentAttachedTraveler (British military usage, may have been the original usage, which was later adapted to the American military: Means "child that travels with a soldier") Usually pronounced "Military Brat" or "Base Brat".[2][3]
BUB - Battle Update Brief
BVR – Beyond Visual Range (USAF)
BX – Base Exchange (USAF)

[edit] C

C1 – Command
C2 – Command And Control
C3 – Command Control And Communication
C4IR – Command Control Communication Computers Intelligence And Recognition
CAC – Common Access Card (U.S. DoD, pron. "cac")
CAG – Commander, Air Group (U.S. Navy, pron. "cag")
CAGE – Commercial and Government Entity
CAS – Close Air Support
CASEX – Coordinated Antil-Submarine EXercise
CAT – Combat Application Tourniquets
CBRN – Chemical Biological Nuclear Radiological
CBU – Cluster Bomb Unit
CCIR – Commanders Critical Information Requirements
CDIAC – Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center
CDRUSPACOM Commander United States Pacific Command
CENTCOM – Central Command (U.S. Military)
CF – Cluster Fuck (always pronounced phonetically "Charlie Foxtrot")
CH - Cunt Hair (a unit of measurement)
CIA – Central Intelligence Agency
CIC – Command Intelligence Center (U.S. Navy)
CINCLANT – Commander-in-chief, Atlantic Forces (U.S. Navy before 2002)
CINCLANTFLT – Commander-in-chief, Atlantic Fleet (U.S. Navy before 2002)
CINCPAC – Commander-in-chief, Pacific Forces (U.S. Navy before 2002)
CIWS – Close-In Weapon System
CMSgt – Chief Master Sergeant (USAF E-9; highest AF enlisted rank)
CMSAF – Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force (USAF E-9 – Senior Enlisted Member)
CO – Commanding Officer
CO – Company
COA – Course of Action
COCOM – Combatant Commander
CODELS – Congressional Delegations
COMINT – Communications Intelligence
COMPACFLT – Commander, Pacific Fleet (U.S. Navy)
COMSEC' – Communication Security
CONUS – Continental United States (U.S. military, pron. "cone-us")
CONUSA – Continental United States Army (numbered Armies of U.S. military)
CORDS – (U.S. military, Vietnam era)
CoS – Chief of Staff
CPL – Corporal (U.S. Army and Marine Corps E-4)
CPO – Chief Petty Officer (USCG/USN E-7)
CPT – Captain
CPX – Command Post Exercise
CQB – Close Quarters Battle
CRC – CONUS Replacement Center (a military processing center at Fort Benning, Georgia, US)
CSM – Command Sergeant Major (U.S. Army E9 highest Army enlisted rank))
CT – Counter-terrorism Team
CUB - Commander Update Brief
CVN – Nuclear-powered Aircraft Carrier (NOTE: the V comes from the expression "heavier than air flying machine")
CZN – Nuclear-powered Airship Carrier (NOTE: the Z comes from the use of the word Zeppelin although non-Zeppelin airships would also be transported on a CZN)

[edit] D

DAGR – Defense Advanced GPS Receiver
DARPA – Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (U.S. Military)
DFAC – Dining Facility (U.S. Military)
DFAS – Defense Finance and Accounting Service (U.S. Military)
DINFAC – Dining Facility (U.S. Military)
DISA - Defense Information Systems Agency
DMS – Defense Message System (U.S. Military)
DMZ – Demilitarized Zone
DoDAAC – Department of Defense Activity Address Code (U.S. Military)
DoDAF – Department of Defense Architectural Framework (U.S. Military)
DoDIC – Department of Defense Identification Code (U.S. Military)
DZ – Drop Zone

[edit] E

E&E – Escape and Evade
ECP – Entry Control Point
ELINT – Electronic Intelligence
EPW – Enemy Prisoner of War
EOD – Explosive Ordnance Disposal
EI - Engineering and Installation
EIS - Engineering and Installation Squadron
EI SIT - Engineering and Installation Site Implementaion Team
ETA – Estimated time of arrival
ETS – Estimated Termination of Service
EUCOM – European Command (U.S. Military)
Exfil – Exfiltration
EMP- Electronic Magnetic Pulse

[edit] F

FA – Field Artillery
FABS - Fetus Aborted By Squad
FAK – First Aid Kit
FAR – Federal Acquistion Regulation
FBCB2 – Force XXI Battlefield Command Brigade and Below
FBI – Federal Bureau of Investigation
FEBA – Forward Edge of the Battle Area
FIDO – FIre Direction Officer
FIDO – Fuck It, Drive On
FIFO – First In First Out
FIGMO - Fuck You, I've Got My Orders
FISINT – Foreign Instrumentation Signals Intelligence
FitRep – Fitness Report
FLOT – Forward Line of Troops
FLOTUS – First Lady of the United States (U.S. – see POTUS)
FM - Field Marshal
FMC – Fully Mission Capable
FMS – Fuck Me Sideways (exclamatory)
FNG – Fucking New Guy (US Military/British Army)
FOB – Forward Operating Base
FOD – Foreign Object Damage (U.S.)
FOD – Foreign Object Debris (U.S.)
FPO – Fleet Post Office; See also APO
FSA – Force Structure Allowance
FSTE – Foreign Service Tour Extension
FTUS – Full Time Unit Specialist
FUBAR – Fucked Up Beyond All Recognition
FUBAR - Fucked Up Beyond Any Repair
FUC - Female Ugly Commander

[edit] G

G1 – General Staff Level office for Personnel and Manpower (Division and Above)
G2 – General Staff Level office for Military Intelligence (Division and Above)
G3 – General Staff Level office for Operations and Plans (Division and Above)
G4 – General Staff Level office for Logistics (Division and Above)
G5 – General Staff Level office for Military/Civil Affairs (Division and Above)
G6 – General Staff Level office for Signal and Communication (Division and Above)
G7 – General Staff Level office for Training and Exercises (Division and Above)
G8 – General Staff Level office for Force Development and Analysis (Division and Above)
G9 – General Staff Level office for Civil Operations (Division and Above)
GBU – Guided Bomb Unit
GEN – General
GI – Government Issue
GIGO – Garbage In Garbage Out
GM - Gone Mersault
GO – General Officer
GOCO – Government owned, contractor operated
GPMG – General Purpose Machine Gun
GPS – Global Positioning System
GROM – Polish Special Operations Team (Polish Grupa Reagowania Operacyjno-Manewrowego)
Gulag – The Chief Administration of Collective Labor Camps (Russian ??????? ?????????? ???????, "Glavnoye Upravleniye Lagerey")

[edit] H

HALO – High Altitude Low Opening (Airborne)
HE – High Explosive
HEAT – High Explosive Anti-Tank warhead
HMAS – Her Majesty's Australian Ship (Australia)
HMCS – Her Majesty's Canadian Ship (Canada)
HMMWV – High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle (U.S. Military)
HMNZS – Her Majesty's New Zealand Ship (New Zealand)
HMS – Hans Majestäts Skepp (His Majesty's ship, Sweden)
HMS – Her Majesty's Ship (Royal Navy) (His Majesty's Ship if King)
HOMSEC – Homeland Security
HQ – Headquarters
HUMINT – Human Intelligence
HYT – High Year Tenure (USAF)

[edit] I

IAF – Indian Air Force
IAF – Israeli Air Force
ICBM – Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
ICE – Individual Carrying Equipment
IED – Improvised Explosive Device
IFAK – Individual First Aid Kit
IFF – Identification Friend or Foe
IFF – Introduction to Fighter Fundamentals (USAF)
IG – Inspector General (US Military)
IFV – Infantry Fighting Vehicle
INSCOM – United States Army Intelligence and Security Command
Il – Ilyushin
Interpol – International Criminal Police Organization
ISO – Inter School Course
ISR – Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconaissance
IYAAYAS – If You Aint AMMO, You Ain't Shit

[edit] J

JAG – Judge Advocate General
JETDS – Joint Electronics Type Designation System
JSAM - Joint Service Achievement Medal
JSTAR – Joint Surveillance Target Acquisition Radar
JSOC – Joint Special Operations Command
JDAM - Joint Direct Attack Munition

[edit] K

KATUSA - Korean Augmentation Troops to the United States Army
KIA – Killed In Action
KP – Kitchen Police or Kitchen Patrol
KBO - Keep Buggering On

[edit] L

LAAD – Low Altitude Air Defense
LCDR – Lieutenant Commander (US Navy)
LCPL – Lance Corporal (US Marines)
LES – Leave and Earnings Statement
LP – Listening Post
LP/OP – Listening Post Observation Post
LGOP – Little Group Of Paratroopers
LLMF – Lost Like a Mother Fucker
LT – Lieutenant
LTC or Lt Col – Lieutenant Colonel
LTG or Lt Gen – Lieutenant General
LTJG – Lieutenant, Junior Grade (US Navy)
LZ – Landing Zone

[edit] M

MARCORSYSCOM – MARine CORps SYStems COMmand (U.S. Military)
MARFORRES – MARine FORces REServe (U.S. Marine Corps)
MAW Maximum Allowable Weight
MBT – Main Battle Tank
MCEN – Marine Corps Enterprise Network (U.S. Military)
MCEITS – Marine Corps Enterprise Information Technology Service (U.S. Military)
MCPO – Master Chief Petty Officer (USCG/USN E-9)
MFA – Ministry of Foreign Affairs
MG – Major General
MI – Military Intelligence
Mi – Mil Moscow Helicopter Plant (Russian)
MIA – Missing In Action
MedEvac – Medical Evacuation
MICV – Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle
MiG – Mikoyan-Gurevich (Russian)
MK – Mark
MK – Machinery Technician (U.S. Coast Guard)
MLRS - Multiple Launch Rocket System
MOA – Military Operating Area (USAF Airspace)
MOAB – Massive Ordnance Air Blast bomb (U.S. military)
MOB – Main Operating Base
MOBCOM – MOBile COMmand
MOPP – Mission Oriented Protective Posture
MPDS – Military Planning Data Allowance
MRAP – Mine Resistant Ambush Protected
MRE – Meal Ready to Eat (U.S. Military)
MRX – Mission Rehearsal Exercise
MSgt – Master Sergeant (USAF E-7)
MTOE – Modified Table Of Organizational Equipment
MTS+ – Movement Tracking System Plus
MSDC+ – Marine Science Diving Club (Diving Club Of Hasanudin University)

[edit] N

NAFTA – North American Free Trade Agreement
NAS – Naval Air Station
NATO – North Atlantic Treaty Organisation
NCIS – Naval Criminal Investigative Service (U.S. Navy)
NCO – Non-Commissioned Officer
NMC – Not Mission Capable
NMCI – Naval Marine Corps Internet (U.S. Navy)
NNMSA – Non-Nuclear Munitions Storage Area
NS - Network Services

[edit] O

OBE – Overcome by Events (DoD)
OCONUS – Outside Continental United States
OFO – Out Fucking Off
OFP – Own Fucking Program
OM – On the Move (Normally just spelled out Oscar Mike)
O&M, MC – Operations & Maintenance, Marine Corps (U.S. Navy)
O&M, N – Operations & Maintenance, Navy (U.S. Navy)
OODA – Observe, Orient, Decide, And Act
ORM – Operational Risk Management
OSM – Oh Shit Moment (U.S. Marine Corps)
OPORD – Operations Order
OPSEC – Operations Security
OTF – Out There Flapping (Airborne)
OTV – Outer Tactical Vest

[edit] P

PACOM – Pacific Command
PDS – Permanent Duty Station (U.S. Military)
PDT – Pre-Deployment Training
PFC – Private First Class (U.S. Military)
PFT – Physical Fitness Test
PLT – Platoon (U.S. Army)
PMC – Partially Mission Capable
PME – Professional Military Education
PMS – Planned Maintenance Schedule (U.S. Navy)
PO – Post Office
PO1 – Petty Officer 1st Class (USCG/USN E-6)
PO2 – Petty Officer 2nd Class (USCG/USN E-5)
PO3 – Petty Officer 3rd Class (USCG/USN E-4)
POBCAK – Problem Occurs Between Chair And Keyboard
POC – Point Of Contact
POTUS – President of the United States
POG – Person Other than Grunt (All non combat arms job fields i.e.: 90% of the Air Force and Navy)
POW – Prisoner Of War
POV – Privately Owned Vehicle
PRP – Personell ReliabilityProgram
PRP – Pretty Retarted Program
PRT – Provincial Reconstruction Team
PT – Physical Training
PV2 – Private 2nd class (U.S. Army E-2)
PVT – Private (U.S. Army and Marine Corps E-1)
PX – Post Exchange (U.S. Army)

[edit] R

RAAF – Royal Australian Air Force (Australia)
RAF – Royal Air Force (UK)
RAN – Royal Australian Navy (Australia)
RCSC – Royal Canadian Sea Cadets (Canada)
REMF – Rear Echelon Mother Fucker
RFL – Response Force Leader
RMC – Royal Military College of Canada (Canada) in Kingston, Ontario
RN – Royal Navy (UK)
ROE – Rules Of Engagement
ROMA Data, Right Out of My Ass Data. Unverifiable created data (different from SWAG)
ROWPU – Reverse Osmosis Water Purification Unit
RNZAF – Royal New Zealand Air Force (New Zealand)
RPG – Rocket-Propelled Grenade
RPM – Rounds per minute
RS – RatShit (Australia – related to US – Unserviceable)
RSS – Regional Security System (Caribbean)
RTB – Return To Base
RV – Rendez-Vous

[edit] S

SA – Seaman Apprentice (USCG/USN E-2)
SAS – Special Air Service (British special forces)
SBS – Special Boat Service (British special forces)
SAAS – Standard Army Ammunition System (U.S. Army)
SAM – Surface-to-air Missile
SARSS – Standard Army Retail Supply System (U.S. Army)
SCPO – Senior Chief Petty Officer (USCG/USN E-8)
SEAL – Sea, Air and Land (US Navy SEALs)
SFC – Sergeant First Class (U.S. Army E7)
SGM – Sergeant Major (U.S. Army E9 – Sometimes referred to as Staff Sergeant Major)
SGT – Sergeant (U.S. Army E5)(U.S. Marines uses Sgt)
SITREP – Situation Report
SMA – Sergeant Major of the Army (U.S. Army E9 – Senior Enlisted Member)
SMSgt – Senior Master Sergeant (USAF E-8)
SN – Seaman (USCG/USN E-3)
SNAFU – Situation Normal: All Fucked Up
SOCOM – United States Special Operations Command
SOFA – Status of Forces Agreement
SOP – Standard Operating Procedures
SOS – Shit On a Shingle, or creamed chipped beef on toast.
SPC – Specialist (U.S. Army E-4)
SR – Seaman Recruit (USCG/USN E-1)
SrA – Senior Airman (USAF E-4)
SSDD - Same Shit Different Day
SSG – Staff Sergeant (US Army E-6)
SSgt – Staff Sergeant (US Air Force E-5)(U.S. Marines E-6)
SOL – Shit Out of Luck (US Army)
SUSFU - Situation Unchanged, Still Fucked Up
SWAG - Scientific Wild Ass Guess

[edit] T

TAD – Temporary Additional Duty (U.S. Military)
TBD - To Be Determined
TDY – Temporary Duty (U.S. Military)
TFOA – Things Falling Off Aircraft
TIC – Troops In Contact
TSgt – Technical Sergeant (USAF E-6)
TU – Tits Up (Dead, Inoperable), a.k.a. "tango uniform"
TARFU – Things Are Really Fucked Up, or Totally And Royally Fucked Up

[edit] U

UA – Unauthorized Absence
UAS – Unmanned Aerial System
UAV – Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
UCAV – Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle
ULLS – Unit Level Logisitics System (U.S. Army)
UMA – Unit Mobilization Assistor
UN – United Nations
US – Unserviceable
USSS – United States Secret Service
USAF – United States Air Force
USAFE – United States Air Forces in Europe
USA PATRIOT Act – Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act
USAREC – US Army REcruiting Command
USAREUR – US Army European Command
USMC – United States Marine Corps
USN – United States Navy
USO – United Service Organizations (U.S. Military)
USR – Unit Status Report
UUV – Unmanned Underwater Vehicle
UXB – Unexploded Bomb (bomb disposal; British)
UXO – Unexploded Ordanance

[edit] V

VBIED – Vehicle-borne Improvised Explosive Device
VDM – Visual Distinguishing Mark
VFD – Volunteer Fire Department
VFR – Volunteer Fire and Rescue

[edit] W

WAG - Wild Ass Guess (non-scientific, as opposed to a SWAG)
WIA – Wounded In Action
WO1 – Warrant Officer 1
WSA – Weapons Storage Area
WMD – Weapons of Mass Destruction
WILCO - WILl COmply
WFK - Who Fucking Know
WTF - What The Fuck

[edit] X

XO – Executive Officer

0–9
Marine wearing 782 gear

29 Stumps – Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms, so named for its desolation.[1][2]

360 – complete circle on a compass (360°); to put protection all around.

48, 72, & 96 – in hours, the standard holiday periods of two, three, or four days of liberty.

782 gear or deuce gear – standard issue web gear, combat gear, or field equipment, such as ALICE, MOLLE, or ILBE. Named after standard Marine Corps Form 782, which Marines formerly signed when they took custody of and responsibility for their equipment.[3]

8 bells – signal for the end of a four-hour watch, so named for the increase in bell strikes by two at each hour of the watch.[4]

8th & I – nickname for Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C. so named from its street address at the corner of 8th and I Streets SE. See also Eighth & I.

[edit] A

above my/your pay grade – expression denying responsibility or authority (indicating that the issue should be brought to higher-ranking officials).[5]

acquire – euphemism denoting theft, sometimes jokingly referred to as "tactical".

acting jack – assistant drill instructor, or an acting Corporal.

ALICE equipment

AHA – Ammunition Holding Area, where ammo is stored and issued.[6][7] See also ASP.

ahoy – traditional nautical greeting, used for hailing other boats.[8]

airdale – person who works in aviation; not to be confused with Airedale Terrier.

Air Force salute – to say, "I don't know" by a shrug.

Air Force pockets or Army gloves – an individual's hands being inside his or her pockets.

ALICE – All-purpose Lightweight Individual Carrying Equipment, an older form of combat gear still in occasional use in some Marine activities, replaced by MOLLE and ILBE.[9]

all hands – entire ship's company or unit personnel, including all officers and enlisted personnel; also, the official Navy magazine.

alphas or class As – Service Alpha uniform from the phonetic letter A.

amtrac or amtrack – portmanteau for amphibious tractor; not to be confused with the railroad company Amtrak.

ANGLICO – Air Naval Gunfire Liaison Company.

ant farm or ant hill – combat outpost with a large number of radio antennae visible.

APC – large, white tablet formerly issued for minor discomfort, that was commonly (albeit mistakenly) called an "all-purpose capsule," in reality named after its ingredients: aspirin, phenacetin, and caffeine; replaced by 800 mg ibuprofen today; less commonly refers to an armored personnel carrier, primarily an Army term.

ARMY – Aren't Ready for Marine's Yet/Aren't Really Men Yet, pejorative backronym used by other branches.

Asiatic – mildly deranged or eccentric as a result of too much foreign duty, or one who has missed too many boats.

ASP – Ammunition Supply Point, where ammo is stored and issued. See also AHA.

ass pack – small pack worn around the belt above the buttocks, similar to Fanny pack. See also butt pack.

as you were – order to disregard the immediately preceding order, often in response to a call to "attention on deck" or when the orders issued were mistaken, phrased as "as I was" when speaking to a superior.[10][11]

ate up – person unaware of what's going on; one who is always lazy, in disarray, and unsatisfactory.[12]

aviation units – See also active squadrons, inactive squadrons, & aviation support units
HAMS – Headquarters and Maintenance Squadron, also H&MS
HMX – Marine Helicopter Squadron
HMH – Marine Heavy Helicopter Squadron
HML – Marine Light Helicopter Squadrons
HMLA – Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron
HMLAT – Marine Light Attack Helicopter Training Squadron
HMM – Marine Medium Helicopter Squadron
HMT – Marine Heavy Helicopter Training Squadron
HMMT – Marine Medium Helicopter Training Squadron
LAAD Bn – Low-altitude Air Defense Battalion
MACG – Marine Air Command Group
MACS – Marine Air Control Squadron
MAMS – Marine Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
MASS – Marine Air Support Squadron
MALS – Marine Aviation Logistics Squadron
MATCS – Marine Air Traffic Control Squadron
MOTS – Marine Operational Training Squadrons
MTACS – Marine Tactical Air Command Squadron
MWSS – Marine Wing Support Squadron
MWCS – Marine Wing Communications Squadron
MWHS – Marine Wing Headquarters squadron
VMAQ – Marine Electronic Warfare Squadron
VMA – Marine Attack Squadron
VMAT – Marine Attack Training Squadron
VMB – Marine Bombing Squadrons
VMC – Marine Composite Squadrons
VMCJ – Marine Composite Reconnaissance Squadrons
VMD – Marine Photographic Squadrons
VMF – Marine Fighter Squadron
VMF(N) – Marine Night Fighter Squadrons
VMFA – Marine Fighter Attack Squadron
VMFA(AW) – Marine All-Weather Fighter Attack Squadron
VMFAT – Marine Fighter Attack Training Squadron
VMFP – Marine Tactical Reconnaissance Squadron
VMGR – Marine Aerial Refueler/Transport Squadron
VMGRT – Marine Aerial Refueler/Transport Training Squadron
VMJ – Marine Reconnaissance Squadron / Marine Target Towing Detachments
VML – Marine Glider Squadron
VMM – Marine Medium Tiltrotor Squadron
VMMT – Marine Medium Tiltrotor Training Squadron
VMO – Marine Observation Squadron
VMP – Marine Patrol Squadron
VMR – Marine Transport Squadrons
VMS – Marine Scouting Squadrons
VMSB – Marine Scout Bombing Squadrons
VMTB – Marine Torpedo Bombing Squadrons
VMTD – Marine Target Towing Detachments
VMU – Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Squadron
VMX – Marine Tiltrotor Operational Test and Evaluation Squadron
ZMQ – Marine Barrage Balloon Squadrons

aye-aye or aye – nautical term used as a response to orders meaning "I understand the orders I have received and will carry them out"; aye (descended from Middle English yai) dialectical for 'yes',[13] once common in the regions from which the Royal Navy drew its sailors.

[edit] B
bag nasty, breakfast version

baby dick – small hot dog or sausage.

baby G – Brigadier General, the lowest ranking general.

bag nasty – A-ration bagged meal issued to Marines (usually recruits or in the field) that usually contains: a sandwich (ham, turkey, and bologna are common), a hard boiled egg, fruit, and a small bag of potato chips; often served with a beverage such as juice or milk.[14]

BAH – Basic Allowance for Housing, a pay addendum that allows a servicemember to maintain housing appropriate for his or her dependents when not living in government quarters; formerly known as Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ).

BAM – pejorative, Broad Assed Marine, term for women Marines.

BAMCIS – mnemonic for the troop leading steps, a tactical decision making process; denotes: Begin the planning, Arrange reconnaissance, Make recon, Complete the planning, Issue order, Supervise.[15]

barracks cover – fabric-covered frame cap, worn green with the service uniform and white with the dress uniform; traditionally, officers wear this cap with the quatrefoil and gilt devices that increase with rank.

barracks queen – woman (servicewoman or civilian) who has had sex with a large number of servicemen in a unit.

barracks rat – servicemember who rarely voluntarily leaves his or her living quarters.[16]

BAS – Battalion Aid Station, a unit's medical post ashore for routine illnesses and injuries; also Basic Allowance for Subsistence, a pay addendum that allows a servicemember to feed his or her family in lieu of government dining facilities. See also sick bay.

Battalion Lance Corporal – most senior non-NCO in the unit; the Lance Corporal who, while having a lot of time in grade, is the least likely to be promoted to the rank of Corporal. See also terminal lance.

battle blaze – original name for the 1st & 2nd Marine Division shoulder sleeve insignias designed after the units' service in the Battle of Guadalcanal.

battle buddy – sarcastic euphemism deriving from orders for Marines to not go on liberty alone when stationed overseas.[17]

battle pin – tie clasp or tie tack, originally a metal collar bar worn on the shirt collar until the beginning of World War II.

battle zero or battle sight zero or BZO – calibrated settings on the sights of a weapon that allow the shooter to overcome various factors and hit accurately at a given range, used as a default before adjusting windage or elevation; also used as a verb when firing to triangulate a BZO by trial and error.

BCGs

BB counter or BB stacker – servicemember whose duties relate to the storage, issue, or handling of ordnance.[18][19]

BCGs or BCs – Birth Control Glasses or Boot Camp Glasses, unattractive military issue glasses worn at recruit training; so named that the wearer could not influence the opposite sex into sexual relations.[20] See also portholes & RPGs.

beans, bullets and bandages – expression used to refer to those things a logistician must provide his or her unit: rations, ammunition, and medical care.

beer garden – area set aside for the social consumption of alcohol and smoking of tobacco; may contain barbecue or picnic facilities.

beer-thirty – time of dismissal from the day's duties (and thus allowed to drink alcohol). See also COB.

belay – to cancel an order; to stop; to firmly secure a line.

below – down the ladder well; below decks.

BEQ – Bachelor Enlisted Quarters, living spaces for single enlisted Marine, usually a barracks.[21]

BCD – Bad Conduct Discharge, also nicknamed Big Chicken Dinner.

big green weenie – an expression denoting that a Marine has been "fucked over" or cheated by the Marine Corps, usually in relation to an inconvenience or unfair treatment.[22]

billet – specific role or job within the unit (for example, the billet of Company First Sergeant is held by the senior enlisted advisor, usually a First Sergeant, but could be a Master Sergeant or Gunnery Sergeant); not to be confused with rank, though some billets have a traditionally-held rank associated.

binnacle list – sick list, a list of men excused from duty; traditionally, it was posted on or near the binnacle.

bird, ball, and hook – pejorative for Eagle, Globe, and Anchor.

bird farm – pejorative for aircraft carrier.

blanket party – group assault on a service member, repeatedly striking him or her, preceded by covering the victim's head by a blanket so he or she cannot identify the perpetrators.

blood stripe – scarlet trouser stripe worn on the blue dress trousers, awarded to Marine officers and NCOs due, according to legend,[23] to their high fatality rates in the Battle of Chapultepec. Also a form of hazing where fellow NCO's inflict damage to the outer thighs of a newly promoted Corporal.

blooper – grenade launcher, from the distinctive noise made when firing. See also thump gun.

blouse – military dress coat or jacket; or as a verb to tuck one's trousers into boots or otherwise secure excess pants legging.

BLT – Battalion Landing Team, the ground combat element of a MEU; not to be confused with a Bacon, Lettuce, and Tomato sandwich.

blues – Blue Dress uniform.

Bn – abbreviation for battalion.

boat – naval vessel, considered a pejorative because all commissioned vessels other than submarines are known as "ships".

boondoggle – wasteful project or trip on government time and/or expense that serves no purpose other than to entertain the person making it.

boot – recruit, or derisive term for a Marine just out of training.

The first thing a recruit sees at boot camp

boots and utes or boots'n'utes – boots and utility uniform, minus the blouse; sometimes used for physical training or working in hot environments.

boot bands or blousing bands – elastic straps or coiled springs used to roll trouser legging under at the boot and simulate tucking into the boot itself; used in blousing boots.

boot camp – recruit training for enlisted Marines at Parris Island, SC and San Diego, CA; while there are several explanations for it being so named, many refer to the fact that recruits wear boots nearly every day of their training.

BOQ – Bachelor Officer Quarters, housing for single Marine officers.[24][25]

box-kicker – pejorative for servicemember who works in supply, specifically, a warehouse clerk.[26]

boxsee – hospital corpsman, from the Vietnamese word "Bac Si" meaning "doctor". See also doc.

brain bucket – helmet.[27]

brain-housing group – thought processing, used as a parallel to a rifle's trigger housing group.[28]

brain strap elastic strap used for securing eyeglasses during rigorous activities, usually found on BCG's

brass – brass uniform items; expended casings from weapons; term for senior officers from the metal of their rank insignia.

brat – longtime dependent children.

the bricks – barracks.

brig – prison or place of confinement aboard ship or ashore at a Marine Corps or naval station.

brig rat – person who has served much brig time, a habitual offender.[29]

brightwork – brass or shiny metal, which Marines must polish.[30]

broke-dick – servicemember on light, limited, or no duty status for medical reasons;[31] also malfunctioning or unserviceable equipment.

brown-bagger – a servicemember (usually married) who lives off base with his family, termed because he or she does not eat at the mess hall and must bring his/her meals with him.[32]

buddy-fucker or blue falcon – negligent or malicious disregard for another servicemember's career, comfort, or time, often for personal gain.[33]

bug juice – insect repellent; also flavored juice made from a powder (such as Kool-Aid).[34]

bulkhead – wall.[35]

bum scoop – bad information.[36]

bus driver – Air Force pilot, so termed for the appearance of early USAF uniforms and the function they serve.

busted or busted down – reduced in rank, from the term meaning "caught in the act".

butt pack – small waist pack worn around the belt above the buttocks, similar to Fanny pack.[37] See also ass pack.

butts – pit(s) on a shooting range where targets are located. See also pits and pull butts / pits.

butter bar – Second Lieutenant, so named for the single gold bar rank insignia.[38]

by the numbers or Barney-style – to perform an action in sequence and strictly according to regulations, idiot proof, oversimplified for the benefit of lower-intelligence people.[39]

"by your leave, sir/ma'am." – expression used to render respect when overtaking a senior proceeding in the same direction, in conjunction with a salute; traditionally, the senior must offer permission before the junior passes him or her.[40]

[edit] C
CAC

C & S – "Clean & Sober" notation formerly entered on the liberty list beside the names of Marines returning from liberty in that condition.

C2 – Command and control.

CAC – Common Access Card, an electronic identification method used to allow a person access to the Navy/Marine Corps Intranet.[41]

CACO – Casualty Assistance Calls/Counseling Officer, a Marine detailed to help the family of a Marine killed, wounded, or captured in the line of duty.[42][43]

call out – to challenge, often by announcing incriminating information about a person.[44] See also drop a dime.

cammies – camouflage utility uniform.[45]

campaign cover – official term for the brown campaign hat worn by drill instructors. See also field hat, hat, & smokey bear/brown.

cannon cocker – artilleryman.[46][47] See also gun bunny and red leg.

Canoe U. – nickname for United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland.[48] See also South Maryland Small Boat & Barge Institute.

Captain's Mast – office hours afloat. The term "Captain's Mast" is almost universally negative, implying non-judicial punishment. The modern Navy and Marine Corps use the term "Meritorious Mast" to announce any ceremony involving the meritorious award of a higher rank or of a particular recognition or honor.[49]

carry on – order to continue after being interrupted.

CAS – Close Air Support, aircraft fire on ground troops in support of nearby friendly troops.

CASEVAC – CASualty EVACuation, emergency evacuation of injured personnel from combat zone by any modes of transport available, as opposed to a MEDEVAC carried out by ambulance equipment designed solely for the purpose.[50] See also MEDEVAC.

Casual Company or CasCo – a holding unit/formation of Marines awaiting one of the following: discharge from the Corps, training (usually at a formal school), or deployment to a unit.[51]

CAX – Combined Arms eXercise.[52]

CBRN – Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear. See also NBC.

CCU – Correctional Custody Unit, a hard-labor and heavy discipline unit overseen by MPs or Navy Masters-at-Arms to which Marines and Sailors found guilty of minor UCMJ offenses through NJP are sent for up to 30 days in lieu of confinement in the brig.[53][54]

Chair Force – derogatory term for the US Air Force.[55][56]

chairborne or chairborne ranger – someone who works in an office environment, a play on airborne.[57]

chalk – squad of servicemembers in an aircraft that will or have been deployed to the ground (rappelling or parachuting).

A single chevron

charlies or chucks – The service "C" uniform, consisting of the short-sleeve khaki shirt and green trousers.

chaser – shortened form of prisoner-chaser or brig chaser, an escort for a prisoner or detail of prisoners.[58]

check fire – order to stop firing due to a safety condition, possible error or mistarget.

Chesty Puller – used in reference to Marines that have been awarded many ribbons and medals.

chevron – symbols of enlisted ranks above private, usually not acceptably called "stripes" unless describing the rank insignia itself.

China Marines – those United States Marines from the 4th Marine Regiment who were stationed in Shanghai, China during 1927–1941

Chinese field day – a form of field day where every item from a room is removed for cleaning; when tending to last much longer than necessary, it is used as a punishment, typically for unsatisfactory performance in routine field day.[59]

chit – voucher, receipt, letter, or note, entitling the bearer to special treatment, such as medical restrictions from duty; derived from Hindi word for "letter", "chitti".[60]

CIF – Consolidated Issue Facility, a place on a station where all personal equipment is stored and issued, often contracted to civilians.[61]

Cinderella liberty – liberty expiring at midnight.

civ div – civilian life after leaving service.[62]

civvies – civilian clothing or mufti.[63][64][65]

CLP – Cleaner, Lubricant, Preservative, teflon-based cleaning and lubricating fluid used for maintaining small arms.

clusterfuck – chaotic and messy situation; multiple mistakes or problems happening in rapid succession. See also goat rope / goat rodeo / goat screw.

CMC – acronym for Commandant of the Marine Corps.[66]

CNN effect – fascination or disruption created by extensive, live television presence in a combat zone.[67]

COB – Close Of Business, the end of working hours; or Close Order Battle, a synonym for CQB. See also beer-thirty.

Colonel – proper means of addressing lieutenant colonels and colonels.

CONUS – CONtinental United States (48 states excluding Alaska and Hawaii), as opposed to OCONUS.

corfams or corframs – uniform dress shoes made from poromeric imitation leather.

corpsman – Navy hospital corpsman attached to a Marine unit; also known as "doc"; inappropriate to address as "medic" or "aid man".[68] See also boxsee.

cover – headgear; protection from enemy fire.

cover and alignment – when in a formation, this refers to the proper distance between those next to, in front of, and behind a person; to seek the proper interval.[69]

covered and uncovered – when wearing and not wearing headgear, respectively.

CQB or CQC – Close Quarters Battle/Combat, combat within a confined space, such as urban warfare. See also MOUT.

crew-served – short for crew-served weapon; also large and very powerful, based on a crew-served weapon being such.

cruise – deployment aboard ship; or enlistment period, inappropriately called a stint.

CS – tear gas or 2-chlorobenzalmalononitrile, a white solid powder commonly used for CBRN defense training.

cumshaw – something extra or free, given as a favor or gift; pidgin expression using the Chinese word for "grateful thanks", "kamsia".[70]

[edit] D

D & D – Drunk and Disorderly, an entry formerly made on the liberty list beside the name of any Marine returning from liberty in that condition.

dai jobu – Japanese for OK.

daily 7 or daily 16 – stretches and exercises used as a warmup for other, more strenuous physical training.

dead horse – to draw advance pay out of the normal pay cycle, the Marine is then obligated to repay the debt at the government's convenience.

deck – floor or surface of the earth; to punch or knock down with one blow.[35]

Devil Dog

deep six – to dispose of by throwing overboard ship.

detachment – a portion of a unit sent independently of its parent organization, usually in support of a larger headquarters; or a small stand alone unit isolated geographically from its parent command.

deuce – reference to the number two in various unit or equipment names.

deuce gear – see 782 gear, from the last digit in that term.

Devil Dog or Devil – nickname for Marines, from the German word "Teufelhunden", supposedly given by German troops at the Battle of Belleau Wood,[71] though the correct grammatical form would be "Teufelshunde".[72][73]

devil dogging – correcting another Marine's minor deficiency, often in public with implied humiliation.[74]

devil pup – nickname for a Marine's child(ren); a member of the Young Marines; a patronizing nickname for a junior Marine.

DI – Drill Instructor, inappropriate to use the Army term "drill sergeant".

DI hut or duty hut – office for drill instructors in a platoon's squad bay; doubles as sleeping quarters for the drill instructor on duty. See also house mouse.

dickskinner or dickbeater – human hand.

DI

diddy bop – poor performance in close order drill, or marching in a manner that does not present a crisp military appearance. One who conducts himself/herself in this manner is labelled a diddy bopper.

DIET – Deep Infiltration and Extraction Team, to "leap frog" across great distances by utilizing helicopters as ground refueling points to perform special missions; later known as FARP.

digis or diggis – digital camouflage such as MARPAT; also refers to the digital-patterned MCCUU.

Disneyland East – Headquarters Marine Corps at Arlington, Virginia.

Doc or Devil Doc – Navy hospital corpsman attached to the Marines. See also boxsee.

dog – small metal fitting used to secure watertight doors, hatches, covers, scuttles, etc.; also, to close/secure such door/hatch; also, slang for Marine, from the term Devil Dog.

dog and pony show – any display, demonstration, or appearance by Marines at the request of seniors for the pleasure of someone else, such as a ceremony or parade; also, pejorative for the requirement for over-perfection of such a venue.

doggie – enlisted member of the United States Army, from the diminutive "dog-face".

donkey dick – slang for virtually any piece of equipment which has a generally cylindrical or phallic shape, roughly one foot in length, with no, unknown, or obscure official name.

dope – information, or sight settings and/or wind corrections for a rifle under given conditions, possibly from aircraft dope.

downrange or down-range – dangerous area, from the portion of a shooting range that receives impacts; also the execution of a plan.

DPICM – Dual-Purpose Improved Conventional Munitions, a specialized artillery round that releases sub-munitions.

drill – close order drill, the procedures and methodology of handling weapons and moving troops about in an orderly fashion, used to indoctrinate recruits in obedience to commands and military appearance.[75][76]

DRMOed – to dispose of an item by taking it to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO).

drop a dime – to reveal incriminating information about a person. See also call out.

dry fire – practice firing of a weapon without using ammunition in order to refine body position and other shooting fundamentals.

DTG – date=Time Group, a numeric code denoting the time and date of a message.

dual-cool or double-trouble – a Marine that possesses both the parachutist and diver badges, usually associated with the Reconnaissance community.[77]

dummy cord – lanyard or tether used to secure a piece of equipment to an anchor to prevent losing it.

duty NCO or duty – sentry responsible for patrol and security of a specific area (usually a barracks and/or working space in garrison). See also fire watch and OOD

[edit] E
EGA

EAS – End of Active Service, the date of discharge from active duty.

EGA – Eagle, Globe, and Anchor, the emblem of the Marine Corps.

eight ball – a Marine who lacks an aggressive spirit.[78]

Eighth & I or Eighth & Eye – Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C., located at 8th and I Streets SE. See also 8th & I.

EM – Enlisted Marine/Man, very inappropriate to use today.

elephant hat – pith helmet first issued in 1940 and worn by rifle range coaches today

embed – embedded journalist assigned a slot within a combat unit.

Ensign – colors, national flag; also the most junior commissioned officer rank in the US Navy.

EOD – Explosive Ordnance Disposal, responsible for the safe handling, deactivation, and removal of unexploded ordnance, the military version of a bomb squad.

EPD – Extra Punitive Duties, punishment assigned where the individual is required to perform cleaning duties after working hours (on his or her liberty time).

EPW – Enemy Prisoner of War.

[edit] F

Fallen Angel – Marine Officer who failed out of flight school and is now in another MOS.

FAP – Fleet Assistance Program, a program designed to assign Marines to extra duties outside of his or her normal chain of command.

FARP – Forward Area Refueling/Rearming Point or Forward Arming Refueling Point, a space on the battlefield designated for the re-arming and re-fueling of aircraft.

fart sack – sleeping bag; linen a mattress is inserted into.

fast-mover – fast-moving fixed-wing aircraft; term popular during the Vietnam War but fallen into disuse as jets replaced propeller as the dominant aircraft.

fat-body – overweight recruit or servicemember.

FEBA – Forward Edge of the Battle Area, the line of departure where a unit enters enemy territory.

Fiddler's Green – imaginary afterlife; paradise.

field day – day or portion of day set aside for top-to-bottom cleaning of an area; also as a verb for the act of conducting a field day.

field expediency – improvisation, to make do with what's available.

field stripped AR-15

field hat – campaign cover, a broad-brimmed felt hat, originally with one straight crease down the middle, then with a Montana peak, worn on expeditionary missions from 1912 to 1942, and then again authorized in 1961 for wear at recruit depots by drill instructors and rifle ranges by marksmanship instructors. See also campaign cover, hat, & smokey bear/brown.

field meet – organized sporting competition, often involving athletics and/or soldierly skills.

field music – drummer, trumpeter, bugler, fifer; mostly an antiquated term.

field scarf – khaki uniform necktie.

field-strip – to disassemble a piece of ordnance or weapon to the major part groups for routine cleaning or lubricating; to strip cigarette butts to their filters before throwing away.

fifty-cal or fitty-cal – M2 Browning machine gun, from its .50 caliber ammunition. See also Ma Deuce.

fifty-cal

fighting hole – a defensive position dug into the ground; can be dug for one Marine, a pair, or a weapon crew; formerly known as a "foxhole".

final protective line – the perimeter at which the enemy has begun to overrun friendly troops, signals the commencement of final protective fire in desperate self-defense.

fire for effect – indicates that the adjustment/ranging of indirect fire is satisfactory and the actual effecting rounds should be fired; also a euphemism for the execution of a plan.

fire watch – sentry on duty specifically guarding a person, place, object, or area in a non-combat area (such as a barracks); considered under arms but usually unarmed. See also duty & OOD.

fire watch medal – pejorative for National Defense Service Medal, so named because even recruits rate it despite firewatch being their most important duty.

first shirt – company or battery First Sergeant.

fitness report or fitrep – report written on Marines (sergeant and above) detailing proficiency and conduct and fitness for command, reviewed for promotion.

five-jump chump – a servicemember who has only performed the minimum five paratrooper jumps to receive the Basic Parachute Insignia, as opposed to the Navy and Marine Corps Parachutist Insignia, which requires additional jumps.[35][79]

flak jacket – antiquated term for ballistic vest or body armor.

float – deployment aboard ship.

FMF or fleet – Fleet Marine Force, the operational forces of the Corps, as opposed to reserve or supporting establishment.

FNG – Fucking New Guy, derogatory term for a Marine recently graduated recruit training and new to a unit.

Fobbie or Fobbit – A marine who rarely sees combat; pejorative term for marines stuck inside a forward operating base.

fore-and-aft cap – soft green garrison cap worn with the service uniform. See also piss cover/cutter.

form ID-10T or ID-ten-tango – prank fool's errand where an unsuspecting Marine is asked to find the fake item, not knowing it is an orthograph for "idiot".

Fortitudine – former motto of the Corps in the 19th century (replaced by Semper Fidelis), from the Latin word for "fortitude"; also the name of the Marine Corps History Division's quarterly magazine.

foxhole – fighting hole as termed by the Army and Marines of the past, no longer appropriate for Marine use.

FRAGO – FRAGmentary Order, an addendum to published operational orders.

frock – to be authorized to wear the next higher grade before promotion, confers authority but not pay grade.

FUBAR – Fucked/Fouled Up Beyond All Recognition/Repair. See also SNAFU.

FUBIJAR – Fuck yoU Buddy, I'm Just A Reservist.[80][81]

full-bird – Colonel, as opposed to a half-bird, light-colonel, or short-bird / short colonel, a Lieutenant Colonel; so named because his or her rank insignia is a silver eagle.

[edit] G

G-2 – an individual's intellect, from designation for a staff intelligence organization.

gaff off – to disregard or ignore a person or order, context usually denotes insubordination.[82][83][84]

gagglefuck – group of Marines grouped too closely or in an unorganized fashion; from gaggle, the term for a flock of grounded geese, and clusterfuck, a term for a messy situation.

gangway – ship's passageway; also used to order juniors to give way to seniors in passageways, and particularly when going up and down ladders.

garrison – in addition to the traditional meaning, an adjective referring to not being deployed or deployable, such as buildings at a unit's home base.

garrison cap or garrison cover – soft green folded cap worn with the service uniform. See also fore-and-aft cap and piss cover/cutter.

gear – property or equipment; usually referring to an individual's combat equipment.

gear adrift – gear found left lying around or unguarded, from the saying "gear adrift, must be a gift!".

geedunk – candy and other sweets, or a location where such items are obtained (such as a store or vending machine); borrowed from the comic strip Harold Teen.[85] See also pogey bait.

General – method of addressing a Brigadier General, Major General, Lieutenant General, or General.

general orders – list of 11 General Orders for Sentries detailing rules for guard or sentry duty.

gerbil launcher – M203 grenade launcher.

get some – spirited cry expressing approval and the desire for more or to continue, traditionally associated in the Vietnam War to killing or sex.

GI shower – bathing with limited water (often with the use of wet wipes); forcibly bathing an individual who refuses to meet minimum hygiene standards.[86]

Gitmo – U.S. Naval Base, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

go-fasters – running shoes or sneakers, named so because they help a person run faster than boots.[87]

goat rope or goat rodeo or goat screw – chaotic and messy situation.[88][89] See also cluster fuck.

gomer or GOMER – antiquated slang for a stupid person, from the character Gomer Pyle; or as a backronym for "Get Out of My Emergency Room" used by corpsmen to refer to malingerers who faked illness to avoid duties.

good cookie – Good Conduct Medal.

good to go – expression denoting that difficulties will be overcome; ready; well done or satisfactory.[90][91]

Gook – anything foreign or strange.[92]

Gore-Tex – All Purpose Environmental Clothing System (APECS), a cold/wet weather protective parka and trousers, based on the Extended Cold Weather Clothing System, usually in reference to the parka; from the fabric it is made from.[93]

gouge – information or news. See also word.

grab-ass – horseplay, loafing, lounging.[94]

greens – service uniforms in reference to their color.

Gunny

grid squares – marked reference lines on a map; often used as a prank fool's errand where an unsuspecting Marine is asked to find a box of them when they don't physically exist.

grinder – parade ground or deck used primarily for drill and/or formations.[95]

ground guide – person who walks in front of a vehicle in order to detect and avoid obstacles and guide the driver to the proper spot.[96]

grunt or ground pounder – infantryman, formerly a pejorative that has taken more neutral tones.

GT score – intelligence, from the General Technical score on the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery and the minimum scores that many Military Occupational Specialties require to qualify.[97]

guide – unit guidon-bearer; in recruit training, also the senior recruit and responsible for the actions of all recruits in a platoon.[98]

gun bunny – artilleryman, so named for the hearing loss associated with working around cannons.[99] See also cannon cocker and red leg.

Gung ho – Chinese phrase meaning to "work together," it became the battle cry of the Marine Raiders.

gunner – shortened form of Marine Gunner, a nickname for an Infantry Weapons Officer; used informally to refer to the Officer In Charge if he or she is of warrant officer rank.

Gunny – nickname for Gunnery Sergeant, improper to call a Master Gunnery Sergeant this.[100][101]

Gunny rolls – poorly-rolled sleeves on the MCCUU, so named from the tendency for some older Marines to take a sloppier approach to uniforms.[102]

gyrene – Vietnam War-era nickname for Marine, often thought an insult; combination of the words "GI" and "Marine".[103][104]

[edit] H
half-mast

H&S or Hide & Slide or Hate & Skate or HotDog & Soda Co. – Headquarters & Service/Supply Company, much like a Headquarters Battalion.

hack – arrest.

hajji – Arab or Middle Eastern person or object, from the Arabic term for one who has completed a pilgrimage to Mecca, or "hajj"

half-bird – Lieutenant Colonel, as opposed to a full-bird. See also short colonel.

half-mast – position of the ensign when hoisted to one flag/ensign height below the top, usually done in respect to a deceased person; also called "half-staff" amongst non-naval forces.

hard charger or hard – term of endearment from a senior to a junior Marine when he or she completes a difficult task, so named for charging through the assignment; or general toughness.

hashmark – service stripe worn on the uniform sleeve by enlisted men and women for completion of four years of honorable service in any of the U.S. Armed Services and Reserves.

hat – drill instructor, so named for the distinctive campaign hat they wear; usually reserved for other or former drill instructor use. See also campaign cover, field hat, & smokey bear/brown.

hatch – door; more specifically, the watertight cover over an opening between compartments or that leads to the ladder wells between decks of a ship.

HBT – HerringBone Twill; the cotton material of Marine utilities from 1941 to the late 1950s.

HDR – Humanitarian Daily Ration, a variation of the MRE used to feed a single malnourished person for one day with 2,300 calories.

HE – High Explosive, used to describe various kinds of ordnance.

looking out the hell hole

head – bathroom or latrine, a nautical term from the days of sailing ships when the designated place to defecate and urinate was forward, at the bow or "head" of the ship.

head shed – command post or other headquarters area where senior Marines gather.

headgear – hats, helmets, caps, etc.

HEAT – High-Explosive AntiTank, type of tank round.

heavy hat – junior drill instructor who performs more discipline and punishment tasks than his peers.

hell hole – hatch mounted in the deck of many helicopters (such as the CH-53E Super Stallion) for rappeling and cargo lifting.

helo – Helicopter. "Chopper" is an Army term.

HEDP – High-Explosive Dual Purpose, type of armor piercing ammunition.

high and right – losing one's temper or rationality; from the common error of a poor shooter to jerk the trigger and impact the upper right side of a target.

high and tight – nickname for a common variant of the buzz cut, where the hair is clipped very close.

high-speed – new, interesting, or cool; often used to sarcastically denote that the subject looks good, but performance is dubious.

hillbilly armor – improvised vehicle armor.

HIMARS – High Mobility Artillery Rocket System.

HMMWV or humvee – High-Mobility Multi-purpose Wheeled Vehicle, common utility truck.

Hollywood Marine – Marine graduated from Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego, stemming from rivalry between the two recruit depots.

homeslice – person, often a sarcastic overture to civilians from a drill instructor; from the terms homie and homeboy.

homesteading – remaining at one duty station for an extended tour or consecutive tours.

honcho or head honcho – person in charge, from the Japanese word for "boss', "hancho"; also a nickname for Okinawan taxi drivers.

hooch or hootch – tent, hut, or otherwise temporary or ramshackle dwelling.

horse-cock sandwich – any sandwich or meal created using an unknown or mystery meat.

house mouse – recruit tasked with cleaning and performing domestic chores for Drill Instructor-only areas. See also DI hut.

housewife – girlfriend; also sewing kit.

HQMC – Headquarters Marine Corps.

hump – carry or lift a load, originally an Australian term meaning "to carry one's swag,"; also a forced march carrying full equipment loads.

hurry up and wait – expression denoting inefficient time management or planning, often when a senior rushes a unit into a situation too fast that subsequently makes them wait.

huss – to give a helping hand, so named because the H-34 Choctaw helicopter's utility configuration was designated as the "HUS-1 Seahorse," leading to Vietnam-era Marines that needed a medical evacuation helicopter to ask for or to be "cut a huss".

[edit] I
IED

I & I – Inspector-Instructor, an active duty Marine assigned to supervise the training of a reserve unit.

IAW – In Accordance With, term often used to denote compliance with published orders or procedures.

IED – Improvised Explosive Device, bomb constructed, set, and detonated in unconventional warfare; the acronym can be modified to denote a specific type of IED (such as VBIED, a Vehicle Borne IED).

IG – Inspector General.

IG Inspection – official inspection of a command or unit by the IG or his representatives.

ILBE – Improved Load Bearing Equipment, the newest iteration of personal combat gear, utilizes the PALS, replaced MOLLE.

in country – phrase referring to being within a war zone.

incentive/individual training or IT – physical training used as a punishment, especially in recruit training, sometimes nicknamed "incentive torture," "indoor tennis," or getting "thrashed/bent/slayed/destroyed" by recruits.[105][106][107] See also pitting & quarterdecking.

inkstick – pen[35]

Irish pennant or IP – loose thread, string, or strap on a uniform or equipment that detracts from a perfect appearance.

Iron Mike – originally a nautical term for a gyrocompass; name for various memorial statues, such as at Parris Island, SC, Quantico, VA, and Belleau, France; nickname bestowed on Marines who score a perfect 300 points on the Physical Fitness Test; nickname for a company or battery named "M or "Mike" in NATO phonetic alphabet.

IRR – Individual Ready Reserve, branch of the reserve that most former servicemembers fall under upon the end of active service, may be called to involuntarily return to active status.

[edit] J

JAG – Judge Advocate General, colloquial name for the legal entity within the Marine Corps, more properly called Judge Advocate Division, from the Judge Advocate General of the Navy, the naval officer who oversees both the Navy's and Marine Corps' legal entities; also, a television show by the same name.

jarhead – pejorative term for a Marine. Jarhead has several supposed origins: the regulation "High and Tight" haircut resembles a mason jar (to add insult, some note that the jar is an empty vessel, also therefore a Marine's head an empty vessel); the Mason Jar Company stopped making jars and made the helmets for Marines during World War II.

Jesus slippers or Jesus boots – government-issue sandals or flip-flops for sanitation in showers. See also shower shoes.

JETDS – Joint Electronics Type Designation System, used to categorize the nomenclature of electronic equipment.

JJ DID TIE BUCKLE – mnemonic for the 14 leadership traits: Justice, Judgement, Dependability, Initiative, Decisiveness, Tact, Integrity, Enthusiasm, Bearing, Unselfishness, Courage, Knowledge, Loyalty, Endurance.

John Wayne

joe – coffee, so named because United States Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels eliminated beer and wine from naval ships, declaring nothing stronger than coffee would be allowed.

John Wayne – P-38 can opener, a small folding blade used to open canned rations (such as K-rations or C-rations), so named because the actor was shown in a training film using it.

Joker – military journalist, from Private Joker from the movie Full Metal Jacket; also a derogatory term for a junior enlisted servicemember. Also, used by aviators, the time at which only 60 minutes of fuel remain.

JTF – Joint Task Force, a provisional unit or formation from more than one branch of service.

jungle bunny – Vietnam War–era phrase for infantry.

junk on [the] bunk – inspection where all uniforms and equipment to be displayed is laid on the Marine's rack.

[edit] K
KA-BAR

K or klicks – kilometer.

KA-BAR – fighting/utility knife first issued during World War II.

keeper – cloth loop on the green service blouse to hold the cloth belt neatly in place.

kelly helmet or K-pot – 1917-model basin helmet worn during World War I until 1942.

kevlar – helmet made from kevlar.

keyboard jockey – person whose job causes him or her use a computer for a length of time.

Kuni – Marine Corps Air Station Iwakuni.

[edit] L

ladder well – stairway or ladder connecting different decks of a ship, so named because naval stairs tend to be so steep as to almost be vertical.

laminated – perceived semi-permanent state of issue for a normally temporary status.

Lance Coolie, Lance Criminal, or Lance Coconut – derogatory terms for Lance Corporal.

Lance Corporal Underground or Lance Corporal Network – joking reference to the gulf between non-NCOs and their superiors; also refers to the spread of foolish rumors that a more experienced Marine would immediately recognize as false.[108][109]

landing gear – crossed rifles exposed on the rank insignia of Lance Corporals, Corporals, and Sergeants.

Land of the big BX – used in reference to CONUS by Marines deployed overseas. A borrowed term from the Army, "...of the big PX."

lawn dart – pejorative for various aircraft, possibly from the lawn dart effect.[110]

LBV – Load Bearing Vest, personal equipment used to keep the most commonly used items within easy reach utilizing the PALS, usually a component of MOLLE or ILBE.

leadstick – pencil.

leatherneck – nickname for Marine, so named for legends stating that stiff leather collars were once worn to protect the throat from sword-blows (also thought that high stocks were worn for discipline, to keep Marines' heads high and straight). The dress blue uniform still bears a high stock collar today. Also, Leatherneck Magazine.

leg – servicemember who does not rate to wear the Parachutist Insignia, borrowed from the Army Airborne.

leggings – leg coverings made of canvas with eyelets and laces or buckles to secure the trouser legs over boots.[111]

liberty – authorized free time ashore or off station, not counted as leave, known in the Army as a "pass".

liberty list – list containing the names of Marines entitled to liberty and those employed by the guard during the liberty period (and thus not entitled to leave post).

liberty risk – a Marine with a high risk of getting into trouble on liberty.

lifer – career servicemember, as opposed to one who serves for a single enlistment.

lifertool – multi-tool, so named because a lifer would inevitably need a tool of such utility.

Lima Charlie or lickin' chicken – Loud and Clear, an expression meaning that the communication has been received and understood; originally exclusive to radio traffic.

line company – lettered Marine companies or the aviation term for ground units, originally, an infantry company.


1st Lt (left) and Chief Warrant Officer 3 (right) insignias

lipstick lieutenant – pejorative for warrant officer, so named from the appearance of their rank insignia: the addition of red to the gold and silver bars of a lieutenant.[112]

lollygag – dawdle or fool about.

long handles – long sleeved/legged undershirt/shorts.

Long War – term for the War on Terrorism favored by senior military leaders.

lost lieutenant finder – hand-held GPS unit, a joke term on the reputation for new lieutenants to be incompetent in land navigation.

LT – abbreviation for lieutenant, inappropriate to address as such verbally.

LWH – LightWeight Helmet.

LZ – Landing Zone, a clearing designated as the place where a helicopter (or other VTOL aircraft) can land.

[edit] M

M – a prefix to the model number of a specific nomenclature of equipment, generally considered to denote "model" or "mark".

ma'am – proper method of addressing female officers in particular and all women in general.

Mac Marine – nickname for Marine, popular during World War II, also the career planner popular on posters of the 1960s.

Maggie's drawers – red flag attached to a pole, used to signal a miss on the rifle range, replaced by a red disk.

MAGTF – Marine Air-Ground Task Force.

Master Guns

Major – a Captain in command of a ship's Marine detachment, so titled because a ship may have only one Captain, the commanding officer.

Mama-san – term of endearment for an elder Japanese woman, often a maid, cook, or tailor/seamstress performing services for Marines; from the Japanese honorific suffix "san".

MARINE – Muscles Are Required, Intelligence Non-Essential or My Ass Rides In Navy Equipment, pejorative backronyms used by other branches.

Marine – the following nicknames are usually acceptable: leatherneck, devil dog, sea soldier, warrior, hard charger, motivator; the following are acceptable from other Marines: jarhead, gyrene; the following are insults: soldier, seabag.

Marine house – Security Guard term for living quarters for Marines, on or off embassy grounds.

Master Guns or Master Gunny – Master Gunnery Sergeant.

Marine Mattress – a woman who is thought to be sexually promiscuous with other Marines.[citation needed]

MBT – Main Battle Tank, currently the M1 Abrams.

MCI – Marine Corps Institute, a distance education program; also, the courses available to Marines for bonus promotion credit.

MCMAP – Marine Corps Martial Arts Program.

MCT – Marine Combat Training, infantry skills training for non-infantry Marines.

MCX – Marine Corps eXchange, a military department store, less formally known as the PX.

meat gazer – urinalysis observer who observes the servicemember peeing into the sample container to prevent tampering with the sample.

MEB – Marine Expeditionary Brigade.

MEDEVAC or Medivac – MEDical EVACuation, removing a wounded person to the closest medical or triage facility using designated ambulance equipment, vehicles, or aircraft. See also CASEVAC.

MEF – Marine Expeditionary Force.

MEPS – Military Entrance Processing Station, facility where prospective recruits are screened medically, psychologically, and legally for recruit training.

mess hall – cafeteria. See also chow hall.

messman – cook.

MEU – Marine Expeditionary Unit.

Mickey Mouse boots – boots designed for extreme cold weather using an air bladder for insulation, so named for their oversized and bloated appearance.

midrats – midnight (or other late-night) rations provided for servicemembers who work late hours.[113]

mike – minute.

mike-mike – millimeter.

military time – the time of day on a 24-hour clock. General Wallace M. Greene forbade the practice of suffixing the unnecessary word "hours" after each indication of time of day ("1330" or "thirteen-thirty" instead of "1330 hours"); the practice of saying "oh" instead of "zero" for hours before 1000 has diminished as well.

MOPP equipment

MOLLE – MOdular Lightweight Load-carrying Equipment, type of load-bearing equipment utilizing the PALS, replaced ALICE and replaced by ILBE.

Molly Marine – nickname associated with early female Marines, especially a statue of Opha Mae Johnson.

monkey suit – military uniforms in general; originally, the fur suit used by aviators at high altitudes.

moonbeam – flashlight.

MOPP – Mission Oriented Protective Posture, the defense equipment (gas masks and overgarment suits) worn to protect against Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical weapons.

mosquito wings or skeeter wings – rank insignia for a Private First Class, a single chevron.

motivator – term of endearment from a senior to a junior Marine, so named when the junior displays motivation for his or her duties.

moto – motivated/motivating, often use to describe a person, object, or event that would motivate an individual Marine.

motarded – displaying excess motivation, often in the form of visual symbols and lore (such as unit logos); a combination of the terms "moto" and "retarded".

motor t or MT – Motor Transport, a subunit of Marines responsible for the operation and maintenance of wheeled non-combat and non-engineer vehicles.

MOUT – Military Operation in Urban Terrain. See also CQB/CQC.

MOS – Military Occupational Specialty, a job classification.

MP – Military Police, mostly replaced by PMO.

MRE – Meal, Ready-to-Eat, standard U.S. field ration. Sometimes jokingly referred to with backronyms such as "Meals Rejected by the Enemy," "Meals Rejected by Ethiopia," "Meal, Rotten to Eject," "Meals Rarely Eaten," "Meal, Reluctant to Exit," "Mister E," or the "Three Lies for the Price of One".

MRE bomb – bursting plastic bag made from chemical heating pouches found inside of a standard MRE.

MSG – Marine Corps Security Guard, responsible for guarding United States Embassies.

MTO – Motor Transport Officer, the Marine in charge of maintenance and operation of a unit's trucks.

MTV – Modular Tactical Vest, the newest type of ballistic vest for Marines.

MTVR – Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement See also 7-ton.

MWD – Military Working Dog, a trained government canine for law enforcement, detection of explosives and/or drugs, sentry, or other military use(s).

[edit] N
NCIS logo

NAVY – Never Again Volunteer Yourself, pejorative backronym used by sailors who regret volunteering.

NBC – Nuclear, Biological, Chemical. See also CBRN.

NCIS – Naval Criminal Investigative Service, the primary law enforcement agency of the DoN, also a television show of the same name.

NCO – NonCommissioned Officer: corporal or sergeant; the Army term "noncom" is no longer appropriate.

NCOIC – Non-Commissioned Officer In Charge, an NCO responsible for a group of Marines, but without the authority of a commissioned officer; somes also the senior enlisted Marine acting with the officer in charge. See also OIC & SNCOIC.

NJP or Ninja Punch – Non-Judicial Punishment, a legal proceeding much like a court-martial of much smaller scope. A commanding officer is authorized to award summary punishments at office hours (called Captain's Mast afloat) under Article 15, UCMJ, to punish offenses too serious to be dealt with by a mere rebuke, but not serious enough to warrant court-martial.

NMCI – Navy/Marine Corps Intranet, the program that outsources garrison information technology services for the Department of the Navy, sometimes jokingly referred to as "Non Mission Capable Internet".[114][115]

non-rate – junior to the NCO ranks: a Private, Private First Class, or Lance Corporal; borrowed from naval use, where personnel below the petty officer ranks had no rating, thus "non-rated men."

no impact, no idea – expression denoting a miss on a weapons range (the scorer cannot find an impact on target); also used as an "I don't know" response.

No Such Agency – backronym for the National Security Agency, so called because of its secretive nature and as a play on words.

NROTC – Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps, a college-based recruiting program for officers for the Navy and Marine Corps.

nut(s) to butt(s) – standing in line extremely close to the person in front, often required in recruit training.

[edit] O
OCS logo

OCONUS – Outside of CONtinental United States, as opposed to CONUS.

O-course – obstacle course.

OCS – Officer Candidate School, recruit training for officers.

O-dark thirty – very early hours before dawn. See also military time. The custom of saying "oh" instead of zero has diminished, but remains in this expression.

office hours – administrative ceremony where legal, disciplinary, and other matters (such as praise, special requests, etc.) are attended, designed to dramatize praise and admonition, in a dignified, disciplined manner, out of the ordinary routine. Known as Captain's Mast afloat. An award given during a positive office hours or Mast is known as a Meritorious Mast, a negative office hours with punishment awarded is an example of non-judicial punishment.

officers' club or officers' mess or O-Club – recreation facility for officers that often includes a bar, restaurant, game room, and objects of unit significance, such as a mascot or war trophy; similar to a gentlemen's club.

officers' country – living spaces for officers aboard ship, or portion of post or station allocated for the exclusive use of officers.

OFP – Own Fucking Program, not complying perfectly or synchronized with orders assigned to a group.

OIC – Officer In Charge, a commissioned officer responsible for a group of Marines, but without the authority of a commanding officer. See also SNCOIC & NCOIC.

OJT – On-the-Job Training, without a formal school or period of instruction.

Oki – Okinawa.

old Asia hand – person with more than one tour in Asia.

Old Man – very informal nickname for the commanding officer, considered an inappropriate term of endearment for use by a junior, thus used in reference but never in address.

OMPF – Official Military Personnel File, a record of all awards, punishments, training, and other records compiled by Headquarters Marine Corps.

oorah or ooh rah or Urah – spirited cry used since the mid-20th century, comparable to Hooah used in the Army or Hooyah by Navy SEALs; most commonly used to respond to a verbal greeting or as an expression of enthusiasm. The origin is often disputed.

OP – Observation Post, a position used for reconnaissance; also, the post newspaper of Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms.

operational tempo or optempo – the pace or speed of operations for a unit or individual.

OTV

OPSEC – Operation(s/al) Security, counterintelligence efforts to keep generally unclassified but sensitive information (such as troop movements and deployments) from enemies.

OPTEMPO – OPerational TEMPO, or the pace of operations and activities for a given unit.

OQR – Officer Qualification Record, a service record for officers, much like an enlisted Marine's SRB.

OOB – Out Of Bounds, or straying into an area restricted from use by normal traffic, prohibited to Marines, or too far from base for a given liberty period.

OOD – Officer Of the Deck, or the senior Marine responsible for the patrol and security of a unit's garrison working spaces and sleeping quarters after working hours, usually responsible for subordinate sentries and acts as a guard commander. See also duty & firewatch

Oscar Mike – On the Move, the names of the two NATO phonetic alphabet letters O and M which stand for the phrase. Used on the radio and in shorthand to each other. See also NATO phonetic alphabet

OTV – Outer Tactical Vest, militarized version of Interceptor body armor, a common type of ballistic vest; being replaced by the MTV.

outside – civilian life after discharge. See also real world.

overhead – ceiling.

over the hill – excessively old; or to the desert.

[edit] P
padre conducting mass

padre – chaplain, usually Catholic, from the Spanish and Italian terms for "father".

PALS – Pouch Attachment Ladder System, a webbing system used to attach combat accessories to MOLLE and ILBE equipment.

Page 11 – NAVMC 118(11), a page of a Marine's Service Record Book or Officer Qualification Record where administrative remarks are made concerning a Marine's performance and conduct, and which may contain negative recommendations regarding promotion or re-enlistment; while not a punishment itself or inherently negative, it is part of a Marine's permanent service record and used as a basis for administrative decisions regarding a Marine's career; the term commonly refers to an entry itself made in this section.

parade ground/field/deck – area set aside for the conduct of parades, drill, and ceremonies, often paved or well-maintained lawn. See also grinder.

Paradise Island – Nickname for Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island.

passageway – corridor or hallway.

passed over – having failed selection for the next higher rank (for SNCOs and officers).

pay grade – DOD system of designating a U.S. serviceperson's pay (E-1 through E-9, W-1 through W-5, and O-1 through O-10), not to be confused with rank (though the two usually correspond) or billet.

PCP – Physical Conditioning Program, exercise regimen for Marines failing to meet the minimum physical requirements; also Physical Conditioning Platoon, for the unit where a physically unfit recruit is sent prior to recruit training, nicknamed Pork Chop Platoon.

PCS – Permanent Change of Station, transfer to another post, station, base, or installation.

PFC – Private First Class or Perfect For Cleaning.

PFT – Physical Fitness Test, a semiannual test measuring strength, agility, and endurance by scoring performance in pull-ups (flexed-arm hang for females), abdominal crunches, and a 3-mile run.

phrog – nickname for CH-46 Sea Knight.

phone watch – duty where a Marine is responsible for answering phones when others are busy or unavailable (such as lunch hours); also the person filling the duty.

PI – Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island; formerly also Philippine Islands, a frequent port of call for Pacific Marines until 1992

pickle suit – Service "A" uniform, from its all over green appearance.

pogey rope

pinning or pinning on – promotion by pinning the new rank insignia onto the MCCUU collar; also a form of hazing by striking the pins into the wearer's chest.

piss and punk/puke – solitary confinement on bread and water, which is only authorized aboard ship.

piss cover or piss cutter – nickname for soft green garrison cap worn with the service uniform.[116] See also fore-and-aft cap.

pit – depressed area on a shooting range where the targets are located, shooters staff it by marking, raising, and lowering targets from behind a berm.[117] See also butts and pulling butts / pits.

pitting – incentive training for a large group of recruits, so named for the sandy pits set aside for such events.[118] See also quarterdecking.

pizza box – Marksman Weapons Qualification Badge, so named for its square shape.

pizza stain – a nickname used by some marines during recruit training to refer to the National Defense Service Medal, so named for the red and yellow appearance, like the cheese and sauce of a pizza.

platoon sergeant – SNCO executive to the platoon commander, usually the senior enlisted man.

PMCS – Preventive Maintenance Checks and Services, regularly performed maintenance on equipment, as opposed to corrective maintenance.

PMO – Provost Marshal's Office, the military police force of a Marine installation.

POC – Point Of Contact, the person to liaison with on a given matter.

pogue or POG – Marine not of the combat arms (infantry, armor, and artillery), etymology is disputed: possibly "pogue" derived from the Tagalog word meaning "prostitute" or the Erse Gaelic word meaning "to kiss [my ass]", while "POG" could be from the acronym Persons Other than Grunt, but could be a backronym.

poguey or pogey bait – Candy or sweets. See also geedunk.

poguey or pogey rope – The French Fourragère authorized for wear by members of the 5th and 6th Marine Regiments.

police – to pick up items (such as litter or expended ammunition casings), to return an area to a natural state.

poncho liner – insulating blanket used to warm the individual wearing a rain poncho, often used as a stand-alone blanket.

pop smoke – to leave quickly or hastily; from the method of throwing a smoke grenade to mark a landing zone or conceal a retreat.

port – naval term for "left"; opposite of starboard.

portholes – military issue eyeglasses, or the wearer of glasses. See also BCGs & RPGs.

pot shack – place where cooking utensils are washed.

prick – slang for any equipment bearing the "PRC" JETDS designator, usually man-portable radios.

property shed – place where organizational property is stored, often a warehouse.

PT – Physical Training, physical exercise to build or maintain strength, agility, and flexibility.

pucker factor – high level of anxiety experienced by those in tight situations, usually aircrew.

pull butts / pits – to mark and score targets on a shooting range from behind a berm. See also butts & pits.

PX – Post eXchange, a term borrowed from the Army; more properly the Marine Corps Exchange.

[edit] Q

QRF – Quick Reaction Force, a highly-mobile stand-by force designed to add firepower in precise places as the commander decides on a changing battlefield, often used for MEDEVAC purposes.

quarter deck – a location of prominence in a barracks or office; in recruit training, this area by the drill instructor's office is usually off-limits to recruits except during ceremonial discipline; the term comes from the quarter deck of a ship defined as "the part of the upper deck abaft the mainmast, including the poop deck when there is one. Usually reserved for ship's officers, guests, and passengers."

quarterdecking – incentive training at recruit training by means of repetitive and constant physical exercises, so named because it is usually a recruit's only opportunity to visit the quarter deck. See also pitting.

quarters – housing, whether bachelor (barracks) or family (government-leased apartments or houses); or periodic, muster of a ship's company.

quatrefoil – four-pointed embroidered pattern stitched on to the top of a Marine officer's barracks cover, from the tradition of wearing it to be identified as friendly to Marine sharpshooters during boarding actions in the era of wooden sailing ships.

[edit] R

R&R – Rest and Relaxation, authorized absence from a combat area to reduce the effects of combat stress reaction.

R/S – Respectfully Submitted, used as an end greeting in written communication.

rack or sack – bed, inappropriate to use the Army term "bunk" except when used in conjunction with "junk on the bunk".

radio watch – duty monitoring radio networks for relevant traffic, also; the person filling that duty.

raider cap – cover worn with the M1941 HBT utilities

ranks – There are no acceptable contractions or shortened ways of addressing the following: Private, Lance Corporal, Corporal, Sergeant, Staff Sergeant, Sergeant Major, Warrant Officer/Chief Warrant Officer, Major, Colonel, and General. The following may be addressed with permission or informally: Private First Class as "Private", a Gunnery Sergeant as "Gunny", a Master Sergeant or First Sergeant as "top", a Master Gunnery Sergeant as "Master Gunny", a Second Lieutenant or First Lieutenant as "Lieutenant", a Captain as "Skipper", a Lieutenant Colonel as "Colonel", and a Brigadier General, Major General, and Lieutenant General as "General". It is inappropriate to abbreviate an enlisted Marine's rank (Staff Sergeant or above) as "Sergeant," nor can the nickname "sarge" be used. Appropriate written abbreviations for all ranks can be found on United States Marine Corps rank insignia.

ratfuck – taking the best available selection and leaving less desirable alternatives for others.

real world – civilian life after discharge. See also outside.

REMF – Rear Echelon Mother Fucker, a derision for someone who serves in a non-combatant role.

red death – poorly prepared corned beef with cabbage.

red lead – ketchup/catsup.

red leg – artilleryman. See also cannon cocker and gun bunny.

Red Patch – device worn on the uniforms of landing support Marines to distinguish the shore party from landing troops.

regulation – to be in accordance with regulations or adopted specifications or issued from government sources.

Remington raider – a typist or clerk in an administration billet.

request mast – appealing to increasingly higher links in the chain of command in order to seek satisfaction for a grievance the requester feels was not adequately handled at a lower level; DoN orders permit any Marine to request mast up to the individual's commanding general without repercussions.

re-up – reenlist, volunteering for an additional period of service.

RHIP – Rank Hath Its Privileges, used as a justification for a personal indulgence.

roach coach – food truck or other mobile store

rock happy – eccentric or mildly deranged as a result of long overseas duty at a remote station (traditionally an island).

Rocks and Shoals – Articles for the Government of the Navy, the pre-UCMJ code of law for the United States Department of the Navy.

RPG

rotate – return home at the end of a deployment.

RPG – Rocket-Propelled Grenade, a common explosive weapon used by many militaries and insurgent groups; the most common of which is the RPG-7.

RPGs or RPs – Rape Prevention Glasses, unattractive military issue glasses worn at recruit training; so named that the wearer would be so unattractive that even a rapist would avoid her. See also BCGs & portholes.[119]

ROE – Rules Of Engagement, the restrictions on when and how a servicemember may use force on the enemy and other forces.

running lights – navigational night lights on a ship; Marine's eyes.

[edit] S
Peter Pace's salad

SACO – Substance Abuse Control Officer, a Marine responsible for the initial screening and evaluation of a Marine or sailor with alcoholism or illegal drug use issues to the proper medical facilities for rehabilitation & treatment.

SAFE – mnemonic for the set up of weapons in small-unit defense, denotes: Security, Automatic weapons, Fields of fire, Entrenchment.[120]

S/F – abbreviation for Semper Fidelis when used as an end greeting in written communication.

sailor – the following nicknames are usually acceptable: bluejacket, tar, whitehat; while the following are considered insults: gob, swab, swabbie, swab jockey, squid, anchor clanker, rust picker, deck ape.

salad, tossed salad or fruit salad – ribbons and medals worn on a uniform, from the colorful appearance of wearing many awards.

salt, salty, or salt/salty dog – experienced or well-worn person or object, from the salt that would accumulate after long-term exposure to salt water.

salty language – profanity.

SALUTE – mnemonic device for a situation report, denotes: Size, Activity, Location, Unit, Time, and Equipment.

sandbox – Iraq or other desert area.

say again (your last) – request to repeat a statement, question, or order, especially over a radio, or as "I say again" to preface a repetition by the sender; the word "repeat" is not to be used in this context, as it calls for a preceding fire mission to be fired again.

Sayonara – Japanese for "goodbye".

Schmuckatelli – generic, unnamed junior Marine, from the Yiddish pejorative "schmuck".

SCIF – Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility, a place classified materials are processed and/or stored.

scrambled eggs – gold oak leaf embroidery found on an officer's barracks cap visor and mess dress cuffs.

scrounge – appropriate, borrow, or acquire (possibly by doubtful means); derived from "scringe," meaning to search about, rummage, or pilfer.

scullery – place where dishes are washed.

scuttlebutt – gossip; or a drinking fountain, from "butt" (cask) and "scuttle" (make a hole in a ship's side, causing it to sink), a cask that had an opening fitted with a spigot used to contain fresh water for drinking purposes. Because people gathered around a scuttlebutt, gossip, rumors, and sea stories are also known as scuttlebutt.[121][122]

seabags

SDI – Senior Drill Instructor, the leader of a recruit platoon.

seabag or sea bag – duffel bag used to carry one's personal belongings.

seabag drag – manually carrying personal items (often within seabags) to new or temporary living quarters.

sea lawyer – person who dispenses legal advice without any sort of formal training or schooling, inappropriately called a "barracks lawyer".

sea story – story, tale, or yarn calculated to impress others, often contains exaggeration or even outright lies.

second hat – second-most senior drill instructor in a platoon.

secret squirrel – intelligence personnel or activities.

secure – stop, cease; or put away and lock.

Semper Fi – shortened version of "Semper Fidelis", the motto of the Corps, Latin for "always faithful".

Semper fu - nickname for Marine Corps Martial Arts

Semper I – colloquialism denoting selfish or self-centered behavior.

semper pie – condition where the mess hall serves similar items repetitively.

shit bag or shit bird – habitually unkempt or undisciplined Marine.

shit-brick – useless or ignorant person.

shit-hot – sarcastic reference to an overly arrogant person.

shitter – bathroom, head, or latrine, most often an outdoor portable toilet or outhouse.

shooter – person whose primary duty involves marksmanship with a rifle or pistol, such as students at a rifle range or competition team members.

shore party – landing support specialists that direct the disposition of troops during an amphibious assault.

short colonel or short-bird – Lieutenant Colonel, as opposed to Colonel. See also light-colonel & half-bird.

short-timer – person nearing the completion of his/her present tour of duty or enlistment.

short-timer's disease – apathy to duties and regulations from a person nearing EAS.

shove off – to leave the vicinity, from the naval term meaning to push a boat off the shore or pier.

shower shoes – pair of rubber sandals issued to recruits to prevent infections from the use of community or shared showers. See also Jesus shoes.

sick bay – infirmary or other medical facility aboard ship, can also refer to aid stations ashore. See also BAS.

sick call – daily period when routine ailments are treated at sick bay.

sick call ranger/commando – person who constantly finds medical reasons to avoid work, may suffer from a factitious disorder such as hypochondriasis, Munchausen syndrome, or malingering.

side arms – weapon (usually a pistol) carried by a sentry under arms; also, cream and sugar in coffee.

side straddle hop – Jumping Jack.

sight in – aim a weapon at a target using the sights, considered an intention to shoot the target.

silver bullet – rectal thermometer used to check the core temperature of a person suffering from heat-related injuries, such as hyperthermia; often referred to as an incentive to avoid dehydration.

skate – avoiding work by finding an excuse to be elsewhere or unavailable by doing something easier (but important enough to avoid re-tasking); also used as an adjective to describe such an easier duty.

skid squadron – Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron, so named because the AH-1 SuperCobra and UH-1N Twin Huey helicopters utilize skids instead of wheels for undercarriage.

recruits wearing skivvies

skipper – nickname for captain (whether Marine or Navy rank), derived from the Scandinavian word for ship, "schiffe", and the Dutch word for captain, "schipper". Inappropriate to refer to a commanding officer that is not your own or without permission.

skivvies – underwear: skivvie shirt (T-shirt) and skivvie drawers (underwear).

skylark – to casually frolic or take excess time to complete a task, from the old naval term to run up and down the rigging of a ship in sport.

slick sleeve – a private in the Marine Corps; refers to the fact that this person does not wear any rank insignia.

slide bite – pinching or abrasions of hand due to holding a semi-automatic pistol too closely to a recoiling slide.

slop chute – impolite term for restaurant within the PX or beer garden.

SMEAC – mnemonic for the five paragraph order, a method of clearly issuing complex orders; denotes: Situation, Mission, Execution, Administration & Logistics, Command & Signal.

Smokey Bear or Smokey Brown – brown campaign cover worn by drill instructors, so named because of their similarity to the hat worn by Smokey Bear. See also campaign cover, field hat, & hat.

smokin' and jokin' – when a mass of Marines is acting unproductive.

SNAFU – Situation Normal, All Fucked Up.[123][124] See also FUBAR.

SNCOIC – Staff NonCommissioned Officer In Charge, a SNCO responsible for a group of Marines, but without the authority of a commissioned officer; somes also the senior enlisted Marine acting with the officer in charge. See also NCOIC & OIC.

snap in – conduct sighting in or aiming exercises with an unloaded weapon.

snot locker – nose.

snow job – misleading or grossly exaggerated report; sales talk.

snuffie or snuffy – junior Marine, Lance Corporal and below.

SOP – Standard Operating Procedure, the routine manner of handling a set situation, can be a standing order.

SOS – international distress signal; or Shit On a Shingle, creamed beef on toast.

South Maryland Small Boat & Barge Institute – nickname for the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. See also Canoe U.

SOTG – Special Operations Training Group

spit and polish – extreme individual or collective military neatness, extreme devotion to the minutiae of traditional military procedures and/or ceremonies; from spit-polishing boots and dress shoes.

spit-shine – polish leather footwear (boots and dress shoes), employing spittle to remove excess grease and produce a high polish.

splice of the mainbrace – invitation to drink, from the old naval custom of drinking grog after repairing battle-damage to the main braces.

spud locker – place where fresh vegetables are stored, after the nickname for potatoes.

squadbay – living quarters with open rooms and shared head, as opposed to the more common barracks that offer individual rooms.

square(d) away – make neat and regulation appearance, to be in a neat and regulation appearance.

squid – pejorative for sailor.

SRB – Service Record Book, an administrative record of an enlisted Marine's personal information, promotions, postings, deployments, punishments, and emergency data; much like an officer's OQR.

SSDD – Same Shit, Different Day, euphemism denoting frustration with an unchanging situation or boredom.

stacking swivel – oblong-shaped link with an opening screwed to the rifle that allowed other rifles to be hooked and stacked (the M1 Garand was the last service rifle to have a stacking swivel, this function is now held by the weapon's sling); a person's throat.

staff NCO or SNCO – Staff NonCommissioned Officer, Marines in the rank of E-6 or above: Staff Sergeant, Gunnery Sergeant, Master Sergeant, First Sergeant, Master Gunnery Sergeant and Sergeant Major.

stand by – wait, stop and wait.

starboard – naval term for "right", opposite of port.

STOL – Short TakeOff/Landing, takeoff and landing technique needing only a short runway to become airborne. See also STOVL, VTOL, & V/STOL.

STOVL – Short TakeOff, Vertical Landing, takeoff and landing technique where a V/STOL aircraft will make a non-vertical take-off to carry greater weight, such as fuel and weapons, expend that weight, and make a vertical landing. See also STOL, VTOL, and V/STOL.

suck – mouth.[35]

the suck – miserable situation or place, often used to describe the Marine Corps or a combat zone.

survey – medical discharge or to effect discharge/retirement of an individual for medical reasons; dispose of an item of government property by reason of unserviceability.

Susie Rottencrotch – wife, girlfriend, or other generic woman.

swab – mop; also pejorative for sailor, so named because sailors of wooden ships had to swab the decks to keep them from warping.

swagger stick – antiquated symbol of authority long out of style.

swamp-ass – unpleasant collection of sweat soaking undergarments.

swinging dick – vulgarity for male Marine, used to emphasize an order to a whole group instead of individual(s).

swoop – make a long trip in a short period of time, usually in reference to returning to post after liberty to avoid an UA status.

sympathy chit – voucher sarcastically authorizing the recipient sympathy from others.

[edit] T
Thousand-yard stare

TAD – Temporary Assigned Duty, a duty where the Marine or Sailor is detached from his or her unit temporarily and serves elsewhere; comparable to the Army term TDY.

TBS – The Basic School, the six month combat training school for new Marine officers.

terminal lance – Marine nearing the end of his enlistment at the rank of lance corporal and unlikely to get promoted; also a webcomic of the same name.[125][126] See also battalion lance corporal.

The Rock – Okinawa.

thousand-yard stare – unfocused gaze of a battle-weary servicemember.

thump gun – grenade launcher, from the distinctive noise made when firing. See also blooper.

tie-ties – straps or strings used to tie items to another line, such as laundry or rifle targets.

tight-jawed – angry, so named from the human tendency to clench the jaw when angered.

tip of the spear – term for a unit or subunit that enters enemy territory first.

T/O&E – Table of Operations and Equipment, a list authorizing a unit personnel of a particular rank and MOS, as well as organic equipment; often seen separately as T/O and T/E.

toilet bowl – Marksman Weapons Qualification Badge, so named for the concentric rings in the design which resemble water swirling down a toilet bowl, and in allusion to its being the lowest level of weapons qualification.

top – informal nickname for a Master Sergeant, inappropriate to use without permission.

topside – ship's upper deck.

tore up – broken, messy, unserviceable.

TRAM – Tractor, Rubber-tired, Articulated steering, Multi-purpose.

T-rat – Tray ration, nickname for Unitized Group Ration, a ration heated and served to a group of servicemembers.

trooper – soldier, considered an insult to refer to a Marine unless plural.

troops – generic group of servicemembers.

trousers – pants.

trunk monkey – a passenger in the back of an armored vehicle, not part of the crew.

two-block – hoist a flag or pennant to the peak, truck, or yardarm of a staff; or a tie with the knot positioned exactly in the gap of a collar of a buttoned shirt.

two digit midget— an enlisted Marine with 99 or fewer days remaining on his or her enlistment.

[edit] U

UA – Unauthorized Absence, the naval version of the term AWOL.

UAV – Unmanned Aerial Vehicle.

UCMJ – Uniform Code of Military Justice (Public Law 506, 81st Congress) 1951, the system of military law, both judicial and non-judicial.

UD – Unit Diary, the computerized system that maintains all administrative records for a unit.

un-ass or un-fuck – to correct a deficiency, usually on a person.

under arms – status of having a weapon, sidearm, "MP" or "SP" brassard, or wearing equipment pertaining to an arm such as a sword sling, pistol belt, or cartridge belt as part of guard duty; Marines under arms do not remove covers indoors.

under canvas – living under temporary sheltering, such as a tent.

utilities

under way – to depart or to start a process for an objective.

unq – unqualified, usually in reference to training events.

unsat – abbreviation of unsatisfactory.

USMC – Acronym for United States Marine Corps. Also used as a pejorative backronym: Uncle Sam's Misguided Children, U Signed the Motherfucking Contract, U Suckers Missed Christmas, Unlimited Shit and Mass Confusion, University of Science, Music and Culture, Uncomplicated Shit Made Complicated, Under Seabee Management Constantly.

USO – United Service Organizations Inc., private, nonprofit organization that provides morale and recreational services to members of the U.S. military worldwide.

utilities – field and work uniforms (currently the MCCUU), formerly called dungarees, inappropriately called the Army term BDU.

[edit] V

VERTREP – vertical replenishment, the use of helicopters for cargo transfer to ships or distant outposts.

VTOL – Vertical TakeOff/Landing, takeoff and landing technique that does not need a runway to become airborne. See also STOL, STOVL, & V/STOL.

V/STOL – Vertical/Short Takeoff and Landing, a type of aircraft that can perform STOL, STOVL, and VTOL.

[edit] W

WAG – Wild-Ass Guess, sometimes qualified with the sarcastic prefix "Scientific".[127]

walking john – nickname for a Marine marching in dress blues uniform that appeared on World War I-era recruiting posters.[128][129]

war belt – web belt.

war paint – camouflage face paint.

watch – formal tour of duty of prescribed length, usually a guard-related task.

water buffalo or water bull – 400-gallon potable water tank, trailer-mounted, towed behind a truck.

weekend warrior – reservist.

wetting-down or wet down – celebration in honor of one's promotion as an officer or to the SNCO ranks, so named for the tradition of wetting the recipient and/or the promotion warrant.[130]

whiskey locker — supply locker/closet.

whites – Marine Corps or Navy white dress uniforms.

WP or Willie Pete[r] – White Phosphorus munition, whether in grenade, mortar, artillery, or aerial bomb form, so named from the pre-1956 phonetic alphabet letters "William" and "Peter."

wilco – voice procedure term shortened from "Will Comply".

willie peter bag – waterproof bag.

wing wiper – aviation person, usually a maintenance person and not a pilot.

winger – aviation Marine.

WIR – DRMO; waste incidental to reprocessing; collection of items and/or equipment for turn-in that may be re-used by someone else at a later time, preferably at a savings to the government.

the wire – defensive perimeter of a firm base, crossing it denotes the end of relative safety.

wooly pully or itchy bitchy – green wool sweater worn with the service uniform (or blue with the dress uniform) over the khaki shirt.

word – general term for instructions, orders, and information that is required for all members of a unit to know; or the act of passing information to a collected group of servicemembers. See also gouge.

WM – Walking Mattress/Woman Marine, usually considered an offensive term.

work your bolt – resort to special measures, either by energy or guile, in order to attain a particular end; from the action of racking a rifle's bolt to clear a stoppage.

[edit] X

XO – Executive Officer, the second in command of a unit, known as a Chief of Staff for a general.[131]

[edit] Y

YATYAS or YAT YAS – You Ain't Tracks/Trackin, You Ain't Shit, an amtrac slogan.[132][133][134]

yellow leg – Marine, nickname given by North Korean Army in reference to Korean War-era discolored, yellow-looking leggings.[111][135][136]

yut or yut yut – exclamation of enthusiasm or approval, similar to oorah.[137]

[edit] Z

zoomie – pilot, usually an Air Force pilot.[138][139]

Zoomie U – United States Air Force Academy
Official acronyms

For a comprehensive list of unit organizations in the US Navy, see List of units of the United States Navy.

3M - Maintenance and Material Management (3M System)
3MC - Maintenance Material Management Coordinator

[edit] A

AAW - Anti-Air warfare
AFFF - Aqueous film forming foam
AIMD - Aircraft Intermediate Maintenance Department (or Detachment)
AMMRL - Aviation Maintenance Material Readiness List
AMO - Assistant Maintenance Officer
AOW - Auxilliaryman of the Watch
AUTEC - Atlantic Undersea Test and Evaluation Center
ASAU - Air Search and Attack Unit
ASUW - Anti-surface warfare
ASW - Anti-submarine warfare
ASWO - Anti-Submarine Warfare Officers
ASW - Auxiliary SeaWater system
AUXO - Auxiliaries Officer
AWOL - Absent without official leave[1]

[edit] B

BB - Battleship
BCD - Bad Conduct Discharge (also colloquially known as "Big Chicken Dinner")
BMOW - Boatswain's Mate of the Watch
BUMED - Bureau of Medicine and Surgery
BUPERS - Bureau of Naval Personnel
BCG's - Birth Control Glasses
BOHICA - Bend Over Here It Comes Again

[edit] C

CA - Heavy Cruiser (outdated)
CAG - Guided Missile Heavy Cruiser (outdated) or Commander Air Group
CDB - Career Development Boards
CG: Guided Missle Cruiser
CGN: Guided Missle Cruiser, Nuclear Powered.
CMS-ID - Career Management System-Interactive Detailing
CNO - Chief of Naval Operations
CO - Commanding Officer[1]
COB - Chief Of the Boat (traditionally found only on submarines). Can also be used for "close of business."
COD - Carrier Onboard Delivery
COMDESGRU - COMmander, DEStroyer GRoUp
COMLANTFLT - COMmander, u.s. atLANTic FLeeT (see CINCLANTFLT)
COMEX - Commence Exercise
COMMO - COMMunications Officer
COMNAVAIRFOR - COMmander, NAVal AIR FORces
COMNAVAIRLANT - COMmander, NAVal AIR forces, atLANTic
COMNAVAIRPAC - COMmander, NAVal AIR forces, PACific
COMNAVSEASYSCOM - COMmander, NAValy SEA SYStems COMmand
COMNAVSECGRU - COMmander, NAVal SECurity GRoUp
COMPACFLT - COMmander, PACific FLeeT (formerly CINCPACFLT)
COMPTUEX - COMPosite Training Unit EXercise
COMSEC - COMmunications SECurity
COMSUBFOR - COMander, SUBmarine FORce
COMSUBLANT - COMmander, SUBmarine force AtLANTtic
Carrier (Lighter-than-air) (No longer in use)
CMC - Command Master Chief
CMDCM - Command Master Chief
CSC - Command Senior Chief
CSC - Combat Systems Coordinator
CSC - Culinary Specialist Chief (E-7)
CMDCS - Command Senior Chief
CPO - Chief Petty Officer
CSEC - Computerized Self Evaluation Checklist
CVN - Carrier Fixed Wing Nuclear, i.e. CVN-72 USS Abraham Lincoln
CVW - Carrier Air Wing
CWO - Chief Warrant Officer

[edit] D

DD - Destroyer
DDG - Guided Missile Destroyer
DDR - Radar Picket Destroyer
DE - Destroyer Escort
DL - Destroyer Leader
DLGN - Nuclear powered Guided Missile Destroyer Leader
DESDIV - DESstroyer DIVision
DEVGRU - Naval Special Warfare DEVelopment GRoUp
DAPA - Drug and Alcohol Programs Advisor
DCA - Damage Control Assistant
DCO - Direct Commission Officer
DCAG - Deputy Air Wing Commander (see CAG)
DCC - Damage Control Central
DESRON - DEStroyer squadRON
DIRNSA - DIRector of the National Security Agency
DM - Destroyer Minelayer
DOD - Department Of Defense
DON - Department Of the Navy

[edit] E

EAOS - End of Active Obligated Service
Naval Officer
ECRC - Expeditionary Combat Readiness Center
EEBD - Emergency Escape Breathing Device
EIDWS - Enlisted Information Dominance Warfare Specialist
EOOW - Engineering Officer Of the Watch
ERS - Engineroom Supervisor
ESWS - Enlisted Surface Warfare Specialist
EWS - Engineering Watch Supervisor

[edit] F

FAC - Forward Air Controller
FAC/A - Forward Air Controller/Airborne
FCF - Functional CheckFlight
FDO - Flight Deck Officer
F/MC - Fleet (or Force) Master Chief
FMF - Fleet Marine Force
FMSS - Field Medical Service School
FOD - Foreign Object Damage (Debris and Detection also used in some cases)
FRC - Fleet Readiness Center
FRS - Fleet Replacement Squadron (Formerly RAG)
FSO - Food Service Officer
FTN - Forget the Navy (Polite Form)
FTN - Full-time Navy (Humorous Form)

[edit] G

GQ - General Quarters (Call to battle stations)
GCCS-M - Global Command Communications System-Maritime
GSA - Global War on Terrorism Support Assignments

[edit] H

HELO - Helicopter
HS - Helicopter Squadron (HS-4 Black Knights)
HM - Hospital Corpsman
HMFIC - Head M F In Charge (See SOPA Below)

[edit] I

IAMM - Individual Augmentation Manpower Management
IAW - "in accordance with"
ICO - "in case of" "in care of"
IMF - Intermediate Maintenance Facility
IMRL - Individual Material Readiness List
IRT - "in reference to..."

[edit] J

JAG - Judge Advocate General's Corps, U.S. Navy
JBD - Jet Blast Deflector (carriers)
JTF - Joint Task Force
JTFEX - Joint Task Force Exercise

[edit] L

LANTCOM - Atlantic Command
LCPO - Leading Chief Petty Officer
LDO - Limited Duty Officer
LES - Leave and Earnings Statement
LPO - Leading Petty Officer
LPOD - Last Plane On Deck
LSO - Landing Signal Officer

[edit] M

MCPO - Master Chief Petty Officer
MMCPO - Maintenance Master Chief Petty Officer
MCO - Material Control Officer
MMCO - Maintenance/Material Control Officer
MCPON (pronounced "Mick Pon") - Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy
MIDRATS - MIDnight RATions
MPA - Main Propulsion Assistant
MPA - Military Patrol Craft (P-3 Orion, etc)
MO - (pronounced "Moe") Maintenance Officer
MM - Machinist's Mate
MSW - Main Seawater System
MSG - message

[edit] N

NALCOMIS - Naval Aviation Logistics Command Operating Maintenance Information System
NAS - Naval Air Station
NAVAIR - Naval Air Systems Command
NAWCAD - Naval Air Warfare Center - Aircraft Division
NAVCOMP - Comptroller of the Navy
NAVEDTRA - Chief of Navy Education and Training
NAVFAC - Naval Facilities Engineering Command
NAVFLIGHTDEMRON - Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron (Blue Angels)
NAVMAT - Naval Material Command
NAVMILPERSCOM - Navy Military Personnel Command
NAVSEA - Naval Sea Systems Command
NAVSECGRUACT - Naval Security Group Activity
NAVSUP - Naval Supply Systems Command
NAVTRA - Chief of Naval Training
NAWCWD - Naval Air Warfare Center, Weapons Division (now Pacific Missile Test Center)
NBSD - Naval Base San Diego
NCDU - Navy Combat Demolition Unit
NCIS - Naval Criminal Investigative Service
NCTAMS - Naval Computer and Telecommunications Area Master Station
NCTS - Naval Computer Telecommunications Station
NECC - Navy Expeditionary Combat Command
NeL - Navy eLearning
NEX - Navy Exchange
NFO - Naval Flight Officer / Normal Fuel Oil
NKO - Navy Knowledge Online
NMCI - Navy/Marine Corps Intranet
NMPS - Navy Mobilization and Processing Site
NNSY - Norfolk Naval Shipyard
NOSC - Navy Operational Support Center
NROTC - Navy Reserve Officer Training Corps
NJROTC - Navy Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps
NSAWC - Naval Strike and Air Warfare Center
SSES - Ships Signal Exploitation Space
NSGA - Naval Security Group Activity
NSWG - Naval Special Warfare Group
NSWC - Naval Surface Warfare Center
NUWC - Naval Undersea Warfare Center
NWTD - Non Watertight Door

[edit] O

OBA - Oxygen Breathing Apparatus
OCS - Officer Candidate School, located at Naval Station Newport
OFS - Out Fucking Standing
OOD - Officer of the Deck
OOMA - Optimized Organizational Maintenance Activity
OPSO - Operations officer
OPNAV - Office of the Chief of Naval Operations
OSA - Overseas Contingency Operation Support Assignments

[edit] P

PACOM - Pacific Command
PCS - Permanent Change of Station
PFA - Physical Fitness Assessment
POD - Plan of the Day
POTUS - President of the United States
POW - Plan of the Week
PRD - Projected Rotation Date
PRIFLY - PRImary FLight Control (Aircraft carriers)
PSNS and IMF - Puget Sound Naval Shipyard and Intermediate Maintenance Facility
PT - Physical Training
PTS - Perform to Serve
PWD - Public Works Department

[edit] R

RADCON - RADiation CONtrol
RAG - Replacement Air Group, now known as Fleet Replacement Squadron (FRS)
RIO - Radar Intercept Officer
RL - Restricted Line Officer
RMD - Restricted Maneuvering Doctrine
RT - Radiotelephone (voice radio)
RTC - Recruit Training Command, Great Lakes, Illinois
RPOC - Recruit Petty Officer in Charge

[edit] S

SA - Seaman Apprentice
SAG - Surface Action Group
SAM - Surface-to-air missile[1]
SAU - Search and Attack Unit
SCAT - Small Craft Attack Team
SE - Support Equipment
SEALs - United States Navy SEALs (stands for SEa, Air, Land), officially termed Special Warfare Operators.
SECDEF - United States Secretary of Defense
SECNAV - United States Secretary of the Navy
SCBA - Self-contained breathing apparatus
SCPO - Senior Chief Petty Officer
SCW - Seabee Combat Warfare Specialist insignia
SICLOS - Shift Inspect Clean Lube Oil Strainers
SLBM - Submarine-launched ballistic missile
SN - Seaman
SNA - Student Naval Aviator
SO - Special Warfare Operator, aka US Navy SEAL.
SOFA - Status of Forces Agreement
SOPA - Senior Officer Present Afloat
SOP(A) - Senior Officer Present (Ashore)
SPAWAR - Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command
SR - Seaman Recruit
SRB - Selective Reenlistment Bonus
SRW - Shutdown Roving Watch
SS - Submarine or submersible ship
SSBN (aka Boomers) - Hull classification symbol for ballistic missile submarine. The SS denotes submarine, the B denotes ballistic missiles, and the N denotes nuclear-powered.
SSGN - Hull classification symbol for cruise missile submarine. The SS denotes submarine, the G denotes guided missile, and the N denotes nuclear-powered.
SSN - Hull classification symbol for general-purpose fast attack submarines. The SS denotes submarine, while N denotes nuclear-powered.
SSTG - Ships Service Turbine Generator
STREAM - Standard Tension REplenishment Alongside Method
SUBRON - SUBmarine squadRON
SUPPO - SUPPly Officer
SWCC (swick) - Special Warfare Combatant-craft Crewmen, the Special Operations Forces who operate and maintain an inventory of boats used to support special operations missions, particularly those of the U.S. Navy SEALs.
SWO - Surface Warfare Officer

[edit] T

TE - Task Element
TF - Task Force
TG - Task Group
TOPGUN - United States Navy Fighter Weapons School
TU - Task Unit

[edit] U

UA - Unauthorized absence, equivalent to Army absent without leave
UAS - Unmanned Aerial System
UAV - Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
UCMJ - Uniform Code of Military Justice
UDT - Underwater Demolition Team
UNODIR - UNless Otherwise DIRected
UNREP - Underway replenishment
USMC - United States Marine Corps, organized under the United States Department of the Navy)
USN - United States Navy
URL - Unrestricted line officer
USNA - United States Naval Academy (Annapolis)
UWT - Underwater telephone

[edit] V

VERTREP - Vertical replenishment
VCNO - Vice Chief of Naval Operations
VAQ - Fixed Wing Electronic-Attack Squadron
VAW - Fixed Wing Airborne Early Warning Squadron
VF - Fixed Wing Fighter (no longer used)
VFA - Fixed Wing Strike Fighter Squadron
VP - Fixed Wing Patrol Squadron
VRC - Fleet Logistics Support Squadron (VRC-30 Providers)
VTU - Volunteer Training Unit

[edit] W

WCS Work Center Supervisor
WO Warrant Officer
WSO (Wizzo) - Weapon Systems Operator/Naval Flight Officer
WTD Watertight Door

[edit] X

XO - Executive officer
0–9

1st Lt - First Lieutenant
2d Lt - Second Lieutenant
3C - Cross Cultural Competence

[edit] A

A1C - Airman First Class (from 1952 to 1967 it was A2C)
A2C - Airman Second Class (from 1952 to 1967 – now A1C)
A3C - Airman Third Class (from 1952 to 1967 – now Amn)
AADS - Alaskan Air Defense Sector
AB - Airman Basic
ABM - Air Battle Manager
ABU - Airman Battle Uniform
ACA - Airspace Control Authority
ACC - Air Combat Command
ACOT - Advanced Communications Officer Training
ACSC - Air Command and Staff College
ADC - Area Defense Council
ADCON - Administrative Control
ADP - Airman Development Plan
ADPE - Automated Data Processing Equipment
ADSC - Active Duty Service Commitment
AEF - Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AETC - Air Education and Training Command
AEW - Air Expeditionary Wing
AFA - Air Force Academy
AFA - Air Force Association
AFAA - Air Force Audit Agency
AFAMS - Air Force Agency for Modeling and Simulation
AFB - Air Force Base
AFCA - Air Force Communications Agency
AFCAA - Air Force Cost Analysis Agency
AFCAT - Air Force Catalog
AFCEE - Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment
AFCENT - Air Forces Central
AFCESA - Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFCLC - Air Force Culture and Learning Center
AFFMA - Air Force Frequency Management Agency
AFFSA - Air Force Flight Standards Agency
AFFSC - Air Force Financial Services Center
AFGSC - Air Force Global Strike Command
AFH - Air Force Handbook
AFHRA - Air Force Historical Research Agency
AFI - Air Force Instruction; as a duty status, awaiting further instructions
AFIA - Air Force Inspection Agency
AFIAA - Air Force Intelligence Analysis Agency
AFISRA - Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFIT - Air Force Institute of Technology
AFLMA - Air Force Logistics Management Agency
AFLOA - Air Force Legal Operations Agency
AFMA - Air Force Manpower Agency
AFMAN - Air Force Manual
AFMC - Air Force Material Command
AFMOA - Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFMS - Air Force Manpower Standards
AFMSA - Air Force Medical Support Agency
AFNIC - Air Force Network Integration Center
AFNORTH - Air Forces Northern
AFNSEPO - Air Force National Security Emergency Preparedness Office
AFNWCA - Air Force Nuclear Weapons and Counterproliferation Agency
AFOG - Air Force Operations Group
AFOQT - Air Force Officer Qualifying Test
AFPAA - Air Force Public Affairs Agency
AFPAM - Air Force Pamphlet
AFPC - Air Force Personnel Center
AFPCA - Air Force Pentagon Communications Agency
AFPD - Air Force Policy Directive
AFPEO - Air Force Program Executive Office
AFPET - Air Force Petroleum Agency
AFPOA - Air Force Personnel Operations Agency
AFRBA - Air Force Review Boards Agency
AFRC - Air Force Reserve Command
AFRL - Air Force Research Lab
AFRPA - Air Force Real Property Agency
AFSA - Air Force Sergeants Association
AFSC - Air Force Safety Center
AFSC - Air Force Specialty Code
AFSFC - Air Force Security Forces Center
AFSO 21 - Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
AFSOC - Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSOUTH - Air Forces Southern
AFSPC - Air Force Space Command
AFSVA - Air Force Services Agency
AFTO - Air Force Technical Order
AFVA - Air Force Visual Aids
AFWA - Air Force Weather Agency
AGSM - Ainti-G Straining Maneuver
AKRAOC - Alaska Region Air Operations Center
ALO - Air Liaison Officer
ALS - Airman Leadership School
AMC - Air Mobility Command
Amn - Airman
AMMO Troop - Munitions Systems Technician AMMO (U.S. Air Force)
AMS - Academy of Military Science
AMW - Air Mobility Wing
AMXS - Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
ANG - Air National Guard
ANR - Alaskan NORAD Region
AOC - Air and Space Operations Center
AOG - Aircraft On Ground
APS - Aerial Port Squadron
AS - Airlift Squadron
ASBC - Air and Space Basic Course
ATC - Air traffic control
ATO - Air Tasking Order
AU - Air University
AW - Airlift Wing
AWACS - Airborne Warning and Control System
AWACS - A War Against Common Sense
AWC - Air War College
AWOL - Absent Without Leave
AWP - Awaiting Parts

[edit] B

BAH - Basic Allowance for Housing
BAS - Basic Allowance for Subsistance
BCGs - Birth Control Glasses (nickname for eye glasses issued by the US military)
BCOT - Basic Communications Officer Training
BDU - Battle Dress Uniform
BITS - Base Information Transfer System
BFM - Basic Fighter Maneuvers
BFT - Blue Force Tracking
BONE - Nickname for the B-1 Lancer
BOQ - Bachelor Officer Quarters
Brig Gen - Brigadier General
BS - Bomb Squadron
BSA - Basic Surface Attack
BUFF -Big Ugly Fat Fucker, nickname for a B-52 Stratofortress
Butterbar - Slang expression for the rank of second lieutenant; refers to the distinctive gold color of the rank insignia.
BW - Bomb Wing

[edit] C

C-Day - The unnamed day on which a deployment operation begins or is to begin
C2 - Command and Control
C4ISR - Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
CA - Combat Arms
CAF - Combat Air Force
CAI - Computer Aided Instruction
CAOC - Combined Air and Space Operations Center
CAP - Civil Air Patrol
Capt - Captain
CAS - Close Air Support
CAT - Crisis Action Team
CATM - Combat Arms Training and Maintenance
CBT - Computer Based Training
CBRNE - Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High Yield Explosives
CCAF - Community College of the Air Force
CCT - Combat Control
CDC - Career Development Course
CEG - Combat Evaluation Group
CES - Civil Engineering Squadron
CEVG - Combat Evaluation Group
CFEPT - Career Field Education and Training Plan
CFR - Crash Fire Rescue
CFT - Cockpit Familiarization Trainer
CGO - Company Grade Officer (lieutenants and captains)
CGOC - Company Grade Officers' Council
CI - Counterintelligence
CMO - Civil-Military Operations
CMSAF - Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
CMSgt - Chief Master Sergeant
CNO - Computer Network Operations
CNT - Counter Narco-Terror
COA - Course of Action
Col - Colonel
COLA - Cost of Living Adjustment
COMINT - Communications Intelligence
CONOPS - Concept of Operations
CONS - Contracting Squadron
CONUS - Continental United States
COMAFFOR - Commander, Air Force Forces
Cop - Term for Air Force Security Forces
CPF - Civilian Personnel Flight
CPTS - Comptroller Squadron
CS - Communications Squadron
CSAF - Chief of Staff of the Air Force
CSAR - Combat Search and Rescue
CSS - Commander's Support Staff (orderly room)

[edit] D

D-Day - The unnamed day on which an operation begins or is to begin
DACBT - Dissimilar Air Combat Training
DEERS - Defense Eligibility Enrollment Reporting System
DEROS - Date Estimated Return from OverSeas
DFAC - Dining Facility
DMSP - Defense Meteorological Satellite Program
Dollar Ride - A pilot's first flight in an airframe
Doolie - nickname for a first year Air Force Academy cadet
DOR - Date of Rank
DRU - Direct Reporting Unit
DSCS - Defense Satellite Communications System
DSP - Defense Support Program
DSPD - Defense Support to Public Diplomacy
DT - Development Team

[edit] E

EAD - Effective Active duty Date
EADS - Eastern Air Defense Sector
EELV - Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle
EET - Exercise Evaluation Team
EFMP - Exceptional Family Member Program
ELINT - Electronic signals Intelligence
EGI - Embedded GPS/Inertial Navigation
EMEDS - Expeditionary Medical Support
ENJJPT - Euro NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training
EOC - Emergency Operations Center
EOD - Explosive Ordinance Disposal
EPR - Enlisted Performance Report
ERO - Engine Running Onload/Offload
EW - Electronic Warfare
EWO - Electronic Warfare Officer

[edit] F

FAA - Federal Aviation Administration
FAC - Forward Air Controller
FAIP - First Assignment Instructor Pilot
FGO - Field Grade Officer (majors, lieutenant colonels, and colonels)
FIGMO - Fuck it I Got My Orders
Fini Flight - A pilot's last flight in the aircraft before he/she leaves a squadron
FLPP - Foreign Language Profeciency Pay
FMS - Foreign Military Sales
FOA - Field Operating Agency
FOD - Foreign Object Damage or debris that can cause damage
Four Fan Trash Can - Nickname for the C-130 Hercules
Four Fans of Freedom - Nickname for the C-130 Hercules
FRED - Fucking Ridiculous Economic Disaster (term for the C-5 Galaxy)
FS - Fighter Squadron
FSB - Force Shaping Board
FSS - Force Support Squadron
FTAC - First Term Airman's Center
FTU - Formal Training Unit
FTW - Flying Training Wing
FUBAR - Fucked Up Beyond All Recognition
FW - Fighter Wing

[edit] G

G-LOC - G-induced Loss of Consciousness
GBS - Global Broadcast Service
GCIC - Global Cyberspace Integration Center
GCS - Ground Control Station
GDT - Ground Data Terminal
Gen - General
GLCM - Ground Launched Cruise Missile
Gp - Group
GPC - Government Purchase Card
GPS - Global Positioning System
GTC - Government Travel Card

[edit] H

HAF - Headquarters Air Force
HALO - High Altitude, Low Opening
HARM - High Speed Anti-Radiation Missile
HARRT - Humanitarian Assistance Rapid Response Team
Hawg - Nickname for the A-10 Thunderbolt II
HO - Historians Office
HPC - Historic Properties Custodian
HTS - HARM Targeting System
HUD - Head-Up Display
HUMINT - Human Intelligence

[edit] I

IA - Information Assurance
IAW - In Accordance With
ICBM - Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
IFE - In-Flight Emergency
IFF - Identification Friend or Foe or Introduction to Fighter Fundamentals
IFFCC - Integrated Flight and Fire Control Computer
IFT - Introductory Flight Training
IG - Inspector General
ILS - Instrument landing system
IMINT - Imagery Intelligence
IP - Instructor Pilot
IPB - Intelligence Preparation of the Battlespace
IO - Information Operations
IOIC - Information Operations Integration Course
IS - Intelligence Squadron
ISR - Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
ITT - Information, Tickets, and Travel
IYAAYAS - If You Ain't Ammo, You Ain't Shit

[edit] J

J-STARS - Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System
JA - Judge Advocate
JA/ATT - Joint Airborne/ Air Transportability Training
JAOC - Joint Air and Space Operations Center
JATO - Jet-Assisted Take-Off
JDAM - Joint Direct Attack Munition
JFACC - Joint Forces Air Component Commander
JOPES - Joint Operation Planning and Execution System
JPATS - Joint Primary Air Training System
JPPT - Joint Primary Pilot Training
JSOW - Joint Standoff Weapon
JSUPT - Joint Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training

[edit] K

KISS - Keep It Simple Stupid

[edit] L

LAPES - Low Altitude Parachute Extraction System
LATN - Low Altitude Tactical Navigation
Lawn Dart - Nickname for F-16 Fighting Falcon
LEAP - Language Enabled Airman Program
LGB - Laser-Guided Bomb
LRS - Logistics Readiness Squadron
LOAC - Law of Armed Conflict
LOC - Letter of Counseling
LOR - Letter of Reprimand
LOWAT - Low Altitude Training
Lt Col - Lieutenant Colonel
Lt Gen - Lieutenant General

[edit] M

MAC - Military Airlift Command
MAF - Mobility Air Force
Maj - Major
Maj Gen - Major General
MAJCOM - Major Command
MANPAD - Man-Portable Air Defense
MARE - Major Accident Response Exercise
MASINT - Measurement and Signature Intelligence
MATS - Military Air Transport Service
MDG - Medical Group
MEO - Military Equal Opportunity
MICAP - Mission Incapable
MIF - Maneuver Item File
MILDEC - Military Deception
MILSTRIP – Military Standard Requisitioning and Issue Procedure
MLR - Management Level Review
MOAB - Massive Ordinance Air Blast Bomb
MOOTW - Military Operations Other than War
MOS - Maintenance Operations Squadron
Mosquito Wings - Nickname for the Airman rank insignia
MPF - Military Personnel Flight
MRE - Meal Ready to Eat
MSG - Mission Support Group
MSgt - Master Sergeant
MSS - Mission Support Squadron
Mud Hen - Nickname for the F-15E Strike Eagle
MWS - Major Weapons System
MXG - Maintenance Group
MXS - Maintenance Squadron

[edit] N

NAF - Numbered Air Force
NCC - Network Control Center
NCO - Non-commissioned Officer
NCOA - Non-commissioned Officer Academy
NCOIC - Non-Commissioned Officer in Charge
NCW - Network-Centric Warfare
NEADS - Northeast Air Defense Sector
NKAWTG - Nobody Kicks Ass Without Tanker Gas
NOSC - Network Operations and Security Center
NOTAM - Notice To Airmen
NSI - Nuclear Surety Inspection
NVG - Night Vision Goggles
NUB- New Useless Bitch (reference for new person on station)

[edit] O

OCONUS - Outside the Continental United States
OCR - Office of Collateral Responsibility
OG - Operations Group
OL - Operating Location
OODA - Observe Orient Decide Act
OPCON - Operational Control
OPR - Office of Primary Responsibility
OPR - Officer Performance Report
OPSEC - Operations Security
OPTN - Operationalizing and Professionalizing the Network
ORI - Operational Readiness Inspection
ORM - Operation Risk Management
OSI - Office of Special Investigation
OSS - Operations Support Squadron
OT&E - Operational Test and Evaluation
OTS - Officer Training School

[edit] P

PA - Public Affairs
PACAF - Pacific Air Forces
PAR - Precision Approach Radar
PAS - Political Affairs Strategist
PAX - Air passengers
PCS - Permanent Change of Station
PDS - Permanent Duty Station
Perpes - Humorous nickname for PRP, take on herpes
PFE - Promotion Fitness Examination
PFM - Pure Fucking Magic; Term to refer to a technical problem that somehow resolved itself
PFT - Physical Fitness Test
PJ - Pararescueman
PME - Professional Military Education
Pocket Rocket - Term for the missile badge on ICBM and cruise missile maintenance uniforms
Pop Tart - Airman who's technical career schools are 6 weeks or less
PRP - Personnel Reliability Program
PSYOP - Psychological Operations
PTL - Physical Training Leader

[edit] Q

QAF - Quality Air Force

[edit] R

RA - Resource Advisor
RAF - Royal Air Force
RAM - Random Antiterrorism Measure
RAS - Regional Affairs Strategist
RED HORSE - Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron Engineers
RF - Radio frequency
RIF - Reduction In Force
RNLTD - Report No Later Than Date
ROAD - Retired On Active-Duty
RQS - Rescue Squadron
RTB - Return To Base
RTIC - Real Time In the Cockpit
RW - Reconnaissance Wing

[edit] S

SAASS - School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
SAC - Strategic Air Command
SAF - Secretary of the Air Force
SAM - Surface to Air Missile
SARC - Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SATCOM - Satellite Communications
SAV - Staff Assisted Visit
SBIRS - Space-Based Infrared System
SEAD - Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses
SEADS - Southeast Air Defense Sector
SERE - Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SF - Security Forces
SFS - Security Forces Squadron
Shirt - A unit first sergeant
SIGINT - Signals Intelligence
SKT - Specialty Knowledge Test
Slick Sleeve - Nickname for an Airman Basic (owing to the absence of rank insignia on an individual's sleeve)
SMSgt - Senior Master Sergeant
SNCO - Senior Non-commissioned Officer
SNCOA - Senior Non-commissioned Officer Academy
SOP - Standard Operating Procedure
SOPS - Space Operations Squadron
SOS - Squadron Officer School or Special Operations Squadron
SOW - Special Operations Wing
Sq - Squadron
SrA - Senior Airman
SRC - Solid Rock Cafe (new as of 2011, found @ Sheppard AFB, Wichita Falls TX - unofficial anogram that is used by officers as well as students)
SSgt - Staff Sergeant
STEP - Stripe Through Exceptional Performance
Stink Bug - Nickname for the F-117 Nighthawk
STS - Special Tactics Squadron
SVS - Services Squadron
SW - Space Wing
SWA - Southwest Asia
SWAG - Scientific Wild-Ass Guess

[edit] T

TAC - Tactical Air Command
TAC-P - Tactical Air Control Party
TACON - Tactical Control
TAFCSD - Total Active Federal Commission Service Date
TAFMSD - Total Active Federal Military Service Date
Tail-End Charlie - Person bringing up the rear of a formation or a tail gunner
TCNO - Time Compliance Network Order
TCTO - Time Compliance Technical Order
TDY - Temporary Duty
TFCSD - Total Federal Commissioned Service to Date
TGP - Targeting Pod
TLAR - That Looks About Right
TLF - Temporary Living Facility
TO - Technical Order
TRW - Training Wing
TSgt - Technical Sergeant
TST - Time-Sensitive Target
TTP - Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures

[edit] U

UAS - Unmanned Aircraft System
UAV - Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
UCI - Unit Compliance Inspection
UNWT - Undergraduate Network Warfare Training
UPT - Undergraduate Pilot Training
USAF - United States Air Force
USAFA - United States Air Force Academy
USAFE - United States Air Forces in Europe

[edit] V

Viper - Nickname for the F-16 Fighting Falcon
VML - Vulnerable to Move List
VSP - Voluntary Separation Pay

[edit] W

WADS - Western Air Defense Sector
WAF - Women in the Air Force
WAG - Wild-Ass Guess
WAPS - Weighted Airman Promotion System
WASP - Women Airforce Service Pilots
WG - Wing
WIC - Weapons Instructor Course
WSO - Weapon Systems Officer
WX - Weather

[edit] X

X-plane - Experimental aircraft

[edit] Y
[edit] Z

Zoo - Nickname for the Air Force Academy
Zoomie - Nickname for an Air Force Academy graduate or cadet

AAS 	Australian Accounting Standard
AASB 	Australian Accounting Standards Board
AAvn Spt Gp 	Army Aviation Support Group
ABR 	Australian Book of Reference (Navy)
ABRI 	Indonesian Armed Services
ABW 	Airborne Wing
ACAP 	Army Capability Acquisition Program
ACAT 	Acquisition Categorisation (Framework)
ACDSS 	Australian College of Defence and Strategic Studies
ACG 	Air Combat Group
ACM 	Air Chief Marshal
ACPB 	Armidale-Class Patrol Boat
ADACS 	Australian Distributed Architecture Combat System
ADF 	Australian Defence Force
ADFA 	Australian Defence Force Academy
ADFHS 	Australian Defence Force Health Services
ADFIS 	Australian Defence Force Investigative Service
ADFWC 	Australian Defence Force Warfare Centre
ADG 	Air Defence Guard
ADI 	ADI Limited (formerly Australian Defence Industries Ltd, now Thales)
ADO 	Australian Defence Organisation
AEO 	Authorised Engineering Organisation
AEW&C 	Airborne Early Warning and Control
AFS 	Average Funded Strength
AFTC 	Air Force Training Command
AG 	Air to Ground
AHQ 	Army Headquarters
AIDC 	Australian Industry Development Corporation 	[TOP]
AII 	Australian Industry Involvement
AIM 	ABRAMS Integrated Management
AIMS 	Advanced Inventory Management System
AIRMSHL 	Air Marshal
AIRN 	Army Individual Readiness Notice
ALG 	Air Lift Group
ALTC 	Army Logistics Training Centre
AMAFTU 	Aircraft Maintenance and Flight Trials Unit
AMCIP 	Approved Major Capital Investment Program
AMTDU 	Air Movements Training and Development Unit
ANAO 	Australian National Audit Office
ANZAC 	Australian and New Zealand Army Corps
AOC 	Australian Ordnance Council
AODC 	Australian Oceanographic Data Centre
AOS 	Artillery Orientation System
AOSS 	Australian Operational Support Service
APIN 	Army Presence in the North
APS 	Australian Public Service
AQC 	Australian Quality Council
ARA 	Australian Regiment Army
ARDU 	Aircraft Research and Development Unit
ARH 	Armed Reconnaissance Helicopter
ARPANSA 	Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency
AS 	Australian
ASC 	ASC Pty Ltd (formerly, Australian Submarine Corporation)
ASD 	Aerospace Systems Division
ASDEFCON 	Australian Defence Contract
ASEAN 	Association of South East Asian Nations
ASIP 	Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
ASIST 	Applied Suicide Intervention Skills Training
ASL 	Average Staffing Level
ASLAV 	Australian Light Armoured Vehicle
ASLAV-S 	Australian Light Armourev Vehicle - Surveillance Vehicle
ASTA 	AeroSpace Technologies Australia
ASW 	Anti Submarine Warfare
ATC 	Army Training Command
ATEA 	Army Technology and Engineering Agency
AUC 	Assets Under Construction
AUSTACCS 	Australian Army Command Support System
AVM 	Air Vice-Marshal
AWA 	Australian Workplace Agreement
BACWS 	Behind Armour Commander's Weapon Station
BEPB 	Bridge Erection and Propulsion Boat
BFT 	Blue Force Tracking
BOI 	Board of Inquiry
BORIS 	Budgetary and Output Reporting Information System
BRIAN 	Basic Repairable Item Analysis Network
BRIG 	Brigadier
C2 	Command and Control
C&SC 	Command and Staff College
C3I 	Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence
C3ISR 	C3I plus Surveillance & Reconnaissance 	[TOP]
C4IW 	"Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Information Warfare"
CA 	Chief of Army
CAARS 	Corporate Agency Agreement Reporting System
CAF 	Chief of Air Force
CAMM2 	Computer Aided Maintenance Management version 2
CAPT 	Captain
CASA 	Construcciones Aeronatuics SA
CASAC 	Chief of Army's Senior Advisory Committee
CCP 	Contract Change Proposal
CDC 	Capability Development Committee
CDDA 	Compensation for Detriment Caused by Defective Administration
CDF 	Chief of the Defence Force
CDG 	Capability Development Group
CDS 	Chief Defence Scientist
CEI 	Chief Executive Instruction
CENCAT 	Central Catalogue of Inventory
CEP 	Capital Equipment Program
CFO 	Chief Financial Officer
CIO 	Chief Information Officer
CIOG 	Chief Information Officer Group
CLIN 	Contract Line Item Number
CN 	Chief of Navy
COL 	Colonel
COMAST 	Commander Australian Theatre
COMMS 	Communications
COMSARM 	Computer System for Armaments
COMSPT 	Support Command
COMTRACK 	Complaint Management, Tracking and Reporting System
CONDMAT(L) 	Counsellor Defence Material - London
CONDMAT(W) 	Counsellor Defence Materiel - Washington
COSC 	Chief of Staff Committee
CPL 	Corporal 	[TOP]
CPRDI 	Consolidated Progress Report on Defence Initiatives
CPT 	Crew Procedural Trainer
CR 	Commando Regiment
CRC 	Cooperative Research Centre
CSIG 	Corporate Services and Infrastructure Group (now known as the Defence Support Group - DSG)
CSIRO 	Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation
CSP 	Commercial Support Program
CTF 	Combined Task Force
CVS 	Cargo Visibility System
CWS 	Command Weapon Station
DACC 	Defence Assistance to the Civil Community
DAO 	Defence Acquisition Organisation
DAS 	Department of Administrative Services
DC 	Defence Cooperation
DCM 	"Directorate, Corporate Management"
DCN 	Deputy Chief of Navy
DCO 	Defence Community Organisation
DCONPOL 	"Director, Contracting Policy"
DCP 	"Directorate, Capability Planning"
DEFMIS 	Defence Management Information System
DEFPUR 	Defence Purchasing Manual
Dep Sec 	Deputy Secretary
DER 	Defence Efficiency Review
DFAT 	Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade 	[TOP]
DFRT 	Defence Force Remuneration Tribunal
DFSC 	Defence Food Science Centre
DGTA 	Directorate General Technical Airworthiness
DHA 	Defence Housing Authority
DIAR 	Defence Industry & Aerospace Report
DI (A) 	Defence Intruction (Army)
DI (G) 	Defence Intruction (General)
DIGO 	Defence Imagery and Geospatial Organisation
DIO 	Defence Intelligence Organisation
DISC 	Defence Industry Support Committee
DLRP 	Defence Logistics Redevelopment Project
DLTP 	Defence Long Term Plan
DMO 	Defence Materiel Organisation
DMR 	Defence Management Review
DNSDC 	Defence National Storage and Distribution Centre
DPCU 	Disruptive Pattern Combat Uniform
DRMS 	Defence Records Management System
DRN 	Defence Restricted Network
DRP 	Defence Reform Program
DRSR 	Defence Regional Support Review
DSD 	Defence Signals Directorate
DSG 	Defence Support Group
DSTO 	Defence Science and Technology Organisation 	[TOP]
DSWP 	Defence Strategic Workforce Plan
DTRIALS 	Directorate of Trials
EADS 	European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company EADS N.V.
EAS 	Equipment Acquisition Strategy
ELF 	Enhanced Land Force
EO 	Explosive Ordnance
EPLRS 	Enhanced Position Location Reporting System
EVM 	Earned Value Management
EVMS 	Earned Value Management System
EW 	Electronic Warfare
EWSP 	Electronic Warfare Self Protection
EWSQN 	Electronic Warfare Squadron
FALCON 	Financial Acounting Logistics On-line Network
FBCB2 	Force XXI Battle Command Brigade and Below
FBT 	Fringe Benefits Tax
FCPB 	Freemantle-class Patrol Boat
FEG 	Force Element Group
FFG 	Guided Missile Frigate
FFGSPO 	FFG System Program Office
FLEI 	Fatigue Life Expended Index
FMA Act 	Financial Management and Accountability Act 1997
FMO 	Finance Minister's Orders
FMS 	Foreign Military Sales
FOREX 	Foreign Exchange
FSR 	Force Structure Review
FTE 	Full-time Equivalent
FY 	Financial Year
FYDP 	Five Year Defence Program
FYMCEP 	Five Year Minor Capital Equipment Program
GBAD 	Ground Based Aur Defence
GBEs 	Government Business Enterprises
GDP 	Gross Domestic Product
GEN 	General
GFE 	Government Furnished Equipment
GMLS 	Guided Missile Launching System
GPS 	Global Positioning System
GST 	Goods and Services Tax
GWEO 	Guided Weapons and Explosives Organisation
HIC 	Hornet Industry Coalition
HLS 	Head Land Systems
HMAS 	Her Majesty's Australian Ship
HPE 	Head Personnel Executive
HQ 	Headquarters
HQADF 	Headquarters Australian Defence Force
HQAST 	Headquarters Australian Theatre
HQJOC 	Headquarters Joint Operations Command
HR 	Human Resource
HRPV 	Heavy Remote Positioning Vehicle
HUG 	Hornet Upgrade
IFOST 	International Follow-On Structural Test
IG 	Inspector General
IGADF 	Inspector General ADF
IHO 	In-House Option
ILS 	Integrated Logistics Support
IMT 	Integrated Management Team
INT 	Intelligence 	[TOP]
IOC 	Initial Operational Capability
IP 	Intellectual Property
IPP 	Indigenous Participation Project
IPSSR 	Improve Project Scheduling and Status Reporting
IPT 	Integrated Project Team
IS&IP 	Intelligence, Security and International Policy
ISD 	In-Service Date
ISO 	Industrial Supplies Office
ISO 	International Standards Organisation
ISS 	In Service Support
IT 	Information Technology
JALO 	Joint Ammunition and Logistics Organisation
JCPAA 	Joint Committee of Public Accounts and Audit
JLC 	Joint Logistics Command
JORN 	Jindalee Operational Radar Network
JP 	Joint Project
JPAU 	Joint Public Affairs Unit
JSF 	Joint Strike Fighter
JSSA 	Joint Service Support Agency
JSSC 	Joint Services Staff College
KL 	Kuala Lumpur
LCM 	Landing Craft Medium
LCPL 	Lance Corporal
LEAP 	Living Environment and Accommodation Project
LIA 	Living In Accommodation
LMSQNs 	Logistics Management Squadrons
LOG 	Logistics
LOTS 	Logistics Over The Sea
LPA 	Landing Ship Amphibious
LRPC 	Long Range Planning and Concepts
LSD 	Land Systems Division
LTCOL 	Lieutenant Colonel
LTFD 	Long Term Force Disposition
LTGEN 	Lieutenant General
MAA 	Materiel Acquisition Agreement
MAJ 	Major
MAJGEN 	Major General
MARAP 	Medium Artillery Replacement Ammunition
MCE 	Major Capital Equipment
MCRU 	Mobile Control and Reporting Unit
MGI 	Military Geographic Information
MILIS 	Military Integrated Logistics Information System
MINCS(L) 	Minor Capital Submission (Land)
MOU 	Memorandum of Understanding
MOUT 	Military Operations in Urban Terrain
MP 	Member of Parliament
MRH 	Multi-role helicopter
MRS 	Management Reporting System
MRTT 	Multi-role tanker transport
MRU 	Members Required in Uniform
MS 	Military Strategy
MSA 	Materiel Sustainment Agreement
MSBS 	Military Superannuation and Benefits Scheme
MSSS 	Multi-Spectral Surveillance Suite
MWA 	Military Workforce Agreement
NFE 	Night Fighting Equipment
NOC 	Net Operating Cost
NORFORCE 	North West Mobile Force
NRV 	Net Replacement Value
NSCC 	National Security Committee of Cabinet
NTC 	Naval Training Command 	[TOP]
NVG HUD 	Night Vision Goggles Head-Up Display
NWCC 	National Welfare Coordination Centre
OH&S 	Occupational Health and Safety
OEM 	Original Equipment Manufacturer
OPSMAN 4 	Operations Manual 4
OQE 	Objective Quality Evidence
OT&E 	Operational Test and Evaluation
OTHR 	Over the Horizon Radar
P&EO 	Proof and Experimental Organisation
PBS 	Portfolio Budget Statements
PERS 	Personnel
PMADF 	Provost Marshal ADF
PMKeys 	Personal Management Key Solution
PMMM 	Project Management Methodology Minors
PNGDF 	Papua New Guinea Defence Force
POE 	Point of Entry
P.O.W. 	Prisoner of War
PSFD 	Production Sustainment and Follow-on Development
PSPs 	Professional Service Providers
PSTAR 	Portable Search nd Target Acquisition Radar
PWD 	Planned Withdrawal Date
Q&A 	Quality and Achievement
QA 	Quality Assurance
QEMS 	Quality and Environment Management System
QMS 	Quality Management System
R&D 	Research and Development
RAAF 	Royal Australian Air Force
RADM 	Rear Admiral
RAMSI 	Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands
RAN 	Royal Australian Navy
RANTEAA 	RAN Test, Evaluation and Analysis Authority
RAR 	Royal Australian Regiment
RAS 	Replenishment at sea
RBA 	Reserve Bank of Australia
RFP 	Requests for Proposal
RFT 	Requests for Tender
RMC 	Royal Military College
ROE 	Rate of Effort
ROMAN 	Resource and Output Management Accounting Network
S&T 	Science and Technology (Program)
SADI 	Skilling Australia's Defence Industry
SAMS 	Strategic Agreement for Munitions Supply
SATCOM 	Satellite Communications
SCG 	Strategy, Coordination and Governance
SCONS 	Secretaries Committee on National Security
SDA 	Sortie Days Achieved
SDSS 	Standard Defence Supply System
SEC 	Secretary
SEI 	Systems and Electronic Incorporated
SENGO 	Senior Engineering Officer
SEP 	System Enhancement Programme
SES 	Senior Executive Service
SG 	Support Group
SGT 	Sergeant
SM-1 	Standard Missile-1
SM-2 	Standard Missile-2
SME 	Subject Matter Expert
SMEs 	Small and Medium Enterprises
SOLAS 	Safety of Life at Sea
SoS 	System of Systems
SPO 	System Program Office
SSRP 	Supply Systems Redevelopment Project
SUBSAFE 	RAN Submarine Safety Program
SWC 	Short-Warning Conflict
T&E 	Test and Evaluation
TBA 	To be Advised
TC 	Trade Commissioner
TDMC 	Technical Data Management Capability
TI-338 	Report of Materiel and Equipment Performance State
TLCC 	Through Life Cycle Costing
TOR 	Terms of Reference
TRF 	Techinical Regulatory Framework
TTCP 	The Technical Cooperation Program
UAV 	Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
UHF 	Ultra-high frequency
UNSW 	University of New South Wales
USA 	United States of America
USD 	United States Dollar
URD 	Unit Ready Days
VADM 	Vice Admiral
VCDF 	Vice Chief of the Defence Force
WAFV 	Wheeled Armoured Fighting Vehicle
WO 	Warrant Officer
WO2 	Warrant Officer Class 2
WREOC 	War Reserve Explosive Ordnance Committee
WTSS 	Weapon Training Simulation System

solid - copy, roger
someone calls your name + ammo, means they need ammo, Ryan - ammo!
ammo report - asking you how much ammo you have
hot-mic radios - lower headset, do not use the microphone or listen to it

when moving infront of a gunner lines of fire (in vehicle or not) say coming around, or moving infront of you
and WAIT for the gunners order e.g. roger, move
status - what is your status
casualty status - what is the casualties status e.g. bleeding? need casevac?

KLE - Key Leader Engagement (Excort a PL to a town, he sits down with the head village - whatever comes after that determines if you get into a firefight)
Presence Patrols - "Knock and Talk" Go in every single house looking for caches, talking to people, extracting information.
Goat Herders - All allowed one AK-47 and 60 round magazine. Goat herders carry weapons for safety etc.
Trans - Transport, then name how many people for pick-up, location etc.
Connex - Container
T-walls - concrete walls
HME - Home-made explosive
Lead - The leading vehicle or player
Battlestaff - they use BLUFORCE trackers to track every vehicle in the AO. Every vehicle has a GPS which relates the information back to Battlestaff Command.
BUB - Battle Update Brief - passing on information to the next commander/taking over the shift/AO, Assets on hand, what happened earlier and what is going to happen
AAR - After Action Report - for self-improvement, showing how you messed up and what actions you took in a contact
Faster or Slow mover inbound - slow or fast vehicle inbound
AMR - Anti-material Rifle

TQ - tourniquet
Humanitarian Assistance HA
Holding area HA

Plugger - GPS
MRE - meals ready to eat
gearing up - getting your gear ready and making sure it is operatable
formation - get in formation
address - the commander addressing the troops, speech etc. moral boosting
AS-R - As Required
death smell - smell of rotting bodies
CENTCOM - central command
ZSU pronounced zeus
most calls get assigned a tactical frequency like tac 1 tac 2 tac 3 tac 4, medical calls also
re-entering friendly lines - coming into friendly lines and positions
LT - lieutenant
holding - holding positions, an aircraft holding means probably orbiting in that area
orders to follow - orders coming in the next message
get your pod - use your weapons
confirm capture that area - tell me when you control that area, captured means we have control
fient in force - pretend your a bigger force to uncover enemy positions, try attract fire or spot enemies - the main force can then arrive and take them out
debriefing - talking to and taking information
CG - Commanding General


challenge and password - password system, if they get it wrong or don't answer after 10 seconds then they are given a warning shot or simply shot dead
e.g. 'What is the challenge and pass?' 'Blue diamond'
e.g. 'Romeo' 'Juliet'

TLM Team Leader Meeting - leaders meet up to discuss past and future events and current situation

ASR - Alternate Supply Route
POA - Point of Attack
Ranger Graves: sleeping holes dug by marines to protect from shrapnel and gunshots.
SADARM - Sense and Destroy ARMor
relief in place, you are being relieved within your area you are currently - reinforcements
standby for tasking, wait out for a task or message relating to a task
officer-approved - a task or fire mission or something that has been approved by an officer

officer: don't allow dissention (disagreement) but allow a chinese parliment with points of view added in. Don't allow people to take sides for and against, be open but remember you are a team.

'grids to follow' a grid reference will follow after this message - similar to a break
Target Area Designator or Temporary Additional Duty - TAD
piquet, watch, sentry duty

AOA - Angle of Attack
short count - counting down from 5, done with mortars etc
LOF - Limit of fire
'Shura' - a meeting of all key leaders from the AO, happens weekly to talk about current goals and how they are progressing and trying to gain information
Re-attack - JTAC says this to A/C (Aircraft) to re-attack a certain position
I-comm Chatter - enemy radio talk/chatter
Fighting positions - positions with some amount of defence but the best place to attack or set the offensive from
MTC - Move/Movement To Contact
LOC - loss of consciousness
FUBAR is an acronym that commonly means "fucked up beyond all recognition/any repair".
21B - 21 Bravo = combat engineer
21CW - 21 Charlie Whiskey = combat medic
FLOT - Forward Line of Troops, the most forward group
PERSEC - Personal Security
Task Order - give people tasks aka antipop demo (demolitions)
Locally Employed Contractor (LEC)
Battle Order - mission, objectives, intel
Battle Group - large main force engaging in the battle (normally has reserve and reinforcement battle groups attached)
ASL - above sea level
Border Observation Post BOP
maps - work out quickest route and relay that info to TL, relay information like main landmarks aka gas station, oil pipelines.
stand off - shooting with good distance between target, your effective range and weapon system should be better than his - if it isn't then use multiple weapon systems to get more rounds on target
The Direct Air Support Center (DASC)
DASCA - Airbourne
signals gathering - gathering intelligence on signals say from a cellphone and desyphoring where that signal came from and who owns it
CEOI - Communications-Electronics Operating Instructions
"First impressions are the last impressions"
regs - regulations
persistent surveillance - constant surveillance on a target, usually high value
underwater intel gathering - area assessment, sea-bed floor feature assessment, mines/booby-traps ect
px - post exchange
PQ - pec


AAA batteries
Victors - vehicles
Twenty, two zero.. thirty, three zero. That's how you say it.
Major activity - lots of movement or activity
Wire - the base outskirts/fence/gates
warning order, staging area
en route - on the way
mount up - board the vehicle
All 'callsign' Victors be advised 'message' e.g. Hitman... being hitman 1-1, 1-2, 1-3 etc
The acronym BRASS is used as a check list for marksmanship. Which stands for Breath Relax Aim Slack(out of trigger) Squeeze. Or Breath Relax Aim(sight alignment) Sight(sight picture) Squeeze.
ROE - Rules of engagement
Split into fireteam teams, team 1, 2, 3
Gas, Gas, Gas - gas inbound, put on MOPP suits + gasmasks
supply ops chief - gets all the supplies in
escort - tanks, cobras etc escorting you
AS - Air Support
LOD - line of departure
LOA - limit of advance
breach points - points where you inflitrate, breach or an area - breach point 1,2,3 for new areas or places
veering, screening - turning
screen - look at
briefing after - time since LOD, deperature, how far moved, next obj
count people - e.g. i count 7
before using terp ask if they speak english

additional contacts - more contacts, different one ones already pointed out

The second smallest unit of measurement. e.g. Move it a CH to the right and it will be perfect!

clean vehicle - nothing in it, it's clean... used for small combat patrols or as scout
radio check - weak, unreadable, fuzzy - try clean headset
how you read me, same as radio check - loud and clear
In the US military, the term Red-Con is short for Readiness Condition and is used to refer to a unit's readiness to respond to and engage in combat operations. e.g. be red con one in 5 mikes
senior traffic - leadership traffic

checking - holding comms for a break to check on what the topic of the message was about e.g. unknowns or enemy
reference off a vehicle or person e.g. off your 10'oclock, NW of your vehicle
halt - stop
go ahead - send traffic

rounds complete - all rounds have been sent and landed on designated target

firemission - grid ref, bearing from you (so mortars know how danger-close + radius of error), distance from you
message to obeserver - message to the receiver, the message given to the receiver


calling a target.. e.g. two buildings behind roadblock or behind red-bricked building

strong point - A key point in a defensive position, usually strongly fortified and heavily armed with automatic weapons, around which other positions are grouped for its protection.
walled village - a village with a wall going around it
on the net - on comms, on radio


standby for traffic
send traffic
standby for message
send message

maintain dispersion
stay on line, line formation or stay on radios

on-call - things ready on the radio e.g. artillery, on-call artillery
my 6 - my rear, behind me
systemated - Carried on using step-by-step procedures. e.g. adjust fire, systemated

calling grids, say how big the grid e.g. 10 digit grid blah or 4 digit grid 0283
target number, e.g. 1003, 1004 - fire 1xHE on 1003 and 2xWP on 1004
splash over, splash out
impact grid - the grid it landed in, 10 digit grid normally
record this target - record it as confirmed kill or for procedure
hard posture - ready for NBC

PONR - point of no return
semantics - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantics

this is 'callsign' - i am this caller
tight dispersion
fragged - fucked
cammie - camouflage
standing by to copy - waiting on message
on the hook - on the comms, e.g. i want rommel on the hook or 2-1-Actual
on the line - on the comms

vile - village

skinny - confidential information about a topic or person
zulu time - local time
CAAT - Combined Anti-Armor Team
double check - check again e.g. targets 300m, double-check to make sure they're not friendly, past 300 ROE rules
Use 24hr clocks
DO NOT GET EXCITED OVER COMMS, BE CLEAR, USE CORRECT PUNCTUATION, BE CALM, REPEAT IMPORTANT MESSAGES
'My three' 'My nine' 3'oclock, 9'oclock of the person
NO MORAL LOWERING COMMS
main element - main team/friendlies
rally up - get together
call movement e.g. 'movement, right!'
MOPP Postures? - http://www.medtrng.net/efmb/tasks/031-503-1013.htm e.g. going into a certain possible area likely of chemical gases with mopp suits on or gaskmaks or at the ready e.g. stage 2 = mopp suits on
X watch - e.g. 25% watch e.g. 4 man team, 3 sleep, 1 is on watch
lines - lines of defence, points where you must secure e.g. gunner secures 2nd line of defence, foot-mobiles secure 1st, if you see contacts in 3rd line of defence e.g. say a 3km radius then mortars secure that
flashing - using flashlight to illuminate
lasing - same with laser

i tally - i copy
wind - quarter to full value, west to east or left to right etc
neutralise - take out, destroy
kph - kay pee hay-chh
no more road - going off-road
backtrack - move back on our original track
en masse - lots of
shamal - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shamal_%28wind%29 heavy storm, wind, stops air assets
can't raise - can't get on comms with
fire mission - a fire support mission e.g. mortars
sitrep - situational report
s/a - situational awareness
standing-by - waiting for message
stand by - wait for my next message, copy last
change of orders - a change in orders given by the commander

h&s - headquarters and service
hold dispersion - keep dispersion the same distance
contact, run! - run or push through the contact, try get out of there
rain fire - shoot a lot
main gun down, mk19 down, .50 cal down - meaning inoperatable or out of ammunition, from this command the other gunners make sure 360 is covered and they have enough ammunition
SEAD Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses then give a grid to suppress and mark, repeat the message then the vehicle of target, TOT,


you say call contact - and the reply is call contact, this means you understand the message, you get what it means e.g. the blue house, call contact? - reply contact because you see the blue house, e.g. contact the blue house, over - if not then negative on contact
TOT - Time On/Over Target e.g. CAS TOT 5-3 over. Close Air Support will be there for 53minutes.
AGVT: Advanced Ground Vehicle Technology
guns in effect - amount of guns shooting e.g. 5 guns in effect, 5 guns shooting e.g. 5 mortars OR 1 round, 1 gun
call the type of round e.g. HE delay, HE, WP
MTO Mission Tasking Order
talk you on - talk the A/C onto target
in-flying information - information for the pilot e.g. grid ref, bomb to use, type of target, mark

off-safe - safety off, about to fire
finalisation - the act of finalizing e.g. finalisation at grid ref
check-in - support units to check-in to FAC or RTO, they give ammo count and types of ordnance
six-line - six-liner
LSA - Lubricant, Semifluid, Automatic weapons Lubricant (lube), small arms
heads up - listen in

spot - i spot the marking e.g. laser on... spot!
quick hold - hold the vehicles
quick hold, herringbone - hold the vehicle in herringbone formation - do this to stop to debrief or for 1 vehicle to catch-up
can be mixed with line, column, etc
when youre in the position, shout your callsign and set, e.g. 1-1 set


UP, 700 and up, zero, 700 and zero:
It's essentially an ACE report (ACEREP) given by the squad or team members after any engagement. While Alexander is correct as we do this for every room clearance, this is an additional report. I'll break it down:
1st UP: Team/Squad member is present and breathing
Number: Rounds on hand
2nd UP: Equipment check. If you have it all, then you're UP.
Ammunition, Casualty, and Equipment ACE



on target - i'm on target, ready to fire
stand by for x target - stand by for the next target, while spotting searches for them
gear up - gear up and get ready, check equipment and comms, close all zips and pouches etc
rigger tape - duct tape
DFL - departing friendly lines
brass-check - ensure a round is in the chamber
request - a request to do something e.g. attend a casualty
approved - allowed
cleared hot - allowed to shoot or engage
D/C - disconnect, discharge
ATL - assitant team leader, 2IC
communications to places normally include direction, bearing, how far out etc.
if an unknown at a set range then set your range for that e.g. unknown left, 500m, set-range adjustment 500m just incase
timetable for operations, e.g. here at this time, execute the mission in this timeframe
shut-eye - sleep, rotate guys to get sleep, set-up piquet
align off - to align off a unit
marked vehicles - call it, e.g. vehicles with a flag or patch
snatch - take, normally to find out who people are
contact may be face-to-face not firing, compromise
soft or hard - soft being no shots fired or by civilians, hard being shots fired or by military personnel

A
A2CU - Army Air Crew Combat Uniform
AAV - Amphibious Assault Vest
ABU - Airman/Airforce Battle Uniform
ACE - ANCHOR CONSTITUTION EAGLE
ACH - Advanced Combat Helmet
ACOG - Advanced Combat Optical Gunsight
ACU - Army (Advanced) Combat Uniform
AI - Allied Industries
ALICE - All purpose Lightweight Individual Carrying Equipment
ANGLICO - Air-naval gunfire liaison company
ANVIS - Aviator's Night Vision Imaging System
AT - Asgaard Tactical
ATPIAL - Advanced Target Pointer / Illuminator / Aiming Light

B
BALCS - Body Armor/Load Carriage System
BDU - Battle Dress Uniform
BHI - BlackHawk Industries

C
CADPAT - CAnadian Disruptive PATtern
CAT - Combat Application Tourniquet
CIRAS - Combat Integrated Releaseabe Armor System
CRCH - Clansman Radio Control Harness
CRCH - Commando Recon Chest Harness (made by BHI)
CVL - Carbine Visible Laser
CUU - CAMOUFLAGE UTILITY UNIFORM

D
DBAL - Dual Beam Aiming Laser
DCU - Desert Combat Uniform
DFLCS - Defensor Fortis Load Carriage System (forum link)
DPM - Disruptive Pattern Material

E
EI - Eagle Industries
ECWS - Extended Cold Weather System

F
FLC - Fighting Load Carrier
FSBE - Full Spectrum Battle Equipment
FSBE2 - Full Spectrum Battle Equipment 2

G

H
HALO - High Altitude-Low Opening
HAHO - High Altitude-High Opening


I
IAL - Infrared Aiming Light
IBA - Interceptor Body Armor
IBH - Integrated Ballistic Com Helmet
IFAK - Improved First Aid Kit
ITPIAL - Infrared Target Pointer/Illuminator Aiming Laser
IOTV - Improved Outer Tactical Vest
IPIM - Integrated Pointer Illuminator Module
ITL MARS - International Technologies Lasers Multi-purpose Aiming Reflex Sight

J
JTAC - Joint Tactical Air Controller

K
KAC - Knights Armament Company

L
LAR - Light Armored Reconnaissance
LBT - London Bridge Trading Company
LBV - Load bearing Vest
LMT - Lewis Machine and Tool
LRAK - Long Range Assault Kit
LWH - Lightweight Helmet (made by Gentex)

M
MAP - Modular Assault Pack
MARPAT - MARine PATtern
MAS - Military Assault Suit
MAV - Modular Assault Vest
MBITR - Multiband Inter/Intra Team Radio
MBSS - Maritime Ballistic Survivor System
MCCUU - Marine Corps Combat Utility Uniform
MICH - Modular Integrated Communications Helmet
MIPIM - Mini Integrated Pointer Illuminator Module
MJK - Matt Johnson Khaki
MLCS- Maritime Load Carriage System (forum link)

N
NARP - North American Rescue Products
NSW - NAVAL SPECIAL WARFARE
NWU - Navy Working Uniform
NKA - No Known Allergies
NKDA - No Known Drug Allergies, but may have other allergies, i.e. food, pollen etc
NO PEN - Penicillin allergy
NO PCN - Penicillin allergy, less used form

O
ODU - Operational Dress Uniform (U.S. Coast Guard)
OTV - Outer Tactical Vest

P
PASGT - Personnel Armor System for Ground Troops
PC - Plate Carrier
PCU - Protective Combat Uniform
PEPSE - Personal Environmental Protection and Survival Equipment
PERSEC - Personal Security

Q

R
RACK - Ranger Assault Carry Kit
RAV - Releaseable Assault Vest
RBA - Ranger Body Armor
RLCS - Ranger Load Carriage System (forum link)
RRV - Rhodesian Recon Vest
RAID - Reconnaissance, Assault, Interdict, Destroy

S
SAPI - Small Arms Protective Insert
SAW - Squad Automatic Weapon
SFLCS - Special Forces Load Carriage System (forum link)
SOFLAM - Special Operations LAser Marker (AN/PEQ-1)
SOPMOD - Special Operations Peculiar Modification
SPEAR - Special Operations Forces Equipment Advanced Requirements

T
TAG - Tactical Assault Gear
TCI - Tactical Command Industries
TEA - Television Equipment Associates
TPIAL - Target Pointer/Illuminator/Aiming Light

U
UCP - Universal Camouflage Pattern

V

W

X

Y

Z


KISS - Keep it stupid simple
Draw a bead - aim at a target, ready to engage or about to engage
